dialog: 
speaker_heading: JOKER
speaker_heading: AN ORIGIN
text: This story takes place in its own universe. It has no
dialog: connection to any of the DC films that have come before it.
text: We see it as a classic Warner Bros. movie. Gritty, intimate
text: and oddly funny, the characters live in the real world and
dialog: the stakes are personal.
text: Although it is never mentioned in the film, this story takes
dialog: place in the past.
dialog: Let's call it 1981.
dialog: It's a troubled time. The crime rate in Gotham is at record
text: highs. A garbage strike has crippled the city for the past
dialog: six weeks. And the divide between the "haves" and the "have-
text: nots" is palpable. Dreams are beyond reach, slipping into
dialog: delusions.
speaker_heading: OVER BLACK:
text: HEAR LAUGHTER.
text: The sound of a man totally cracking up.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 1 INT. DEPT. OF HEALTH, OFFICE - MORNING 1
text: CLOSE ON JOKER (30's), tears in his eyes from laughing so
text: hard. He's trying to get it under control. His greasy, black
text: hair is matted down. He's wearing an old, faded red hooded
text: zip-up sweatshirt, a threadbare gray scarf, thin from years
text: of use, hangs loosely around his neck.
text: WE NOTICE TWO FADED OLD SCARS cut at the corners of his
text: mouth. Almost forming a smile.
text: He's sitting across from an overworked SOCIAL WORKER (50's),
text: African American. Her office is cramped and run-down in a
text: cramped and run-down building. Stacks of folders piled high
text: in front of her.
text: She just sits behind her desk, waiting for his laughing fit
text: to end, she's been through this before. Finally it subsides.
text: Joker takes a deep breath, pauses to see if it's over.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: --is it just me, or is it getting
dialog: crazier out there?
text: Despite the laughter, there's real pain in his eyes.
text: Something broken in him. Looks like he hasn't slept in days.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: It's certainly tense. People are
text: upset, they're struggling. Looking
dialog: for work. The garbage strike seems
text: like it's been going on forever.
dialog: These are tough times.
dialog: (then)
dialog: How 'bout you. How's the job? Still
dialog: enjoying it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah, I mean, it's different each
dialog: day, so I really like that. I don't
dialog: think I could ever work in an
text: office. Behind a desk.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No offense.
text: She smiles. Writes something down. Looks at the clock, she's
text: running late for her next appointment.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Have you been keeping up with your
dialog: journal?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Everyday.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Great. Did you bring it with you?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (dodging the subject)
dialog: I'm sorry. Did I bring what?
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: (impatient; she doesn't
dialog: have time for this)
dialog: Arthur, last time I asked you to
dialog: bring your journal with you. For
dialog: these appointments. Do you have it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yes ma'am.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Can I see it?
text: He reluctantly reaches into his bag. Pulls out a weathered
text: notebook. Slides it across to her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I've been using it as a journal,
dialog: but also a joke diary. Funny
dialog: thoughts or, or observations-- Did
dialog: I tell you I'm pursuing a career in
dialog: stand-up comedy?
text: She's half-listening as she flips through his journal.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: No. You didn't.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I think I did.
dialog: 3.
text: She doesn't respond, keeps flipping through his journal--
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Oh yeah. Because of what your
dialog: mother said,-- about your purpose.
dialog: "To bring laughter and joy to the
dialog: world," right?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Right.
text: ANGLE ON JOURNAL, pages and pages of notes, all in neat,
text: angry-looking handwriting. Also, cut out photos from hardcore
text: pornographic magazines and some crude handmade drawings.
text: A flash of anger crosses Joker's face. We see him picking at
text: his right eyebrow, almost obsessively. Trying to stay calm.
text: His eyebrow is actually half-gone. Something he does a lot.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I didn't realize you wanted to read
dialog: it.
text: The social worker gives him a look, then reads something in
text: the pages that gives her pause.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: (reading out loud)
dialog: "I just hope my death makes more
dialog: sense than my life."
text: She looks up at Joker. He just stares back. Lets it hang out
text: there for a beat.
text: Then he laughs a little, even though he doesn't think it's
dialog: funny--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah. I mean, that's just--
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Does my reading it upset you?
text: He leans in.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. I just,-- some of it's
dialog: personal. You know?
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: I understand. I just want to make
dialog: sure you're keeping up with it.
text: She slides his journal back to him. He holds it in his lap.
dialog: 4.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: What about your mom? How's she
dialog: feeling?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: She has good days. But mostly bad.
dialog: It's been a big help having me
dialog: there. She really needs me.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Seems like she's been sick a lot
dialog: since you got home.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Yeah, it's good I'm there. When I
dialog: was in the hospital, after my last
dialog: episode-- she was having trouble
dialog: getting over there to visit.
text: She looks back up at the clock, she needs to get to her next
dialog: appointment.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: All right. So, I'll see you again,
dialog: two weeks from today?
text: He nods. But keeps sitting there for a moment.
text: She stands up, trying to signal it's time for him to leave--
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Is there something else I can help
dialog: you with, Arthur? My next
dialog: appointment is waiting.
text: He just keeps sitting there.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah, I was wondering if you could
dialog: ask the doctor to increase the
dialog: dosage on my medications? Nothing
dialog: seems to make a difference.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: (looking over his record)
dialog: Do you know which ones you'd like
dialog: increased?
text: Shakes his head, no.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Have you been sleeping?
dialog: 5.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (lying)
dialog: Some.
text: She glances at his file again.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Arthur, you're on seven different
dialog: medications. Surely they must be
dialog: doing something.
text: He finally stands up. Zips up his faded red sweatshirt.
dialog: Looks at her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I just don't wanna feel so bad
dialog: anymore.
scene_heading: CUT TO BLACK:
speaker_heading: TITLE:
speaker_heading: JOKER
scene_heading: 2 EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE, MIDTOWN - KENNY'S MUSIC SHOP - DAY 2
text: GOTHAM SQUARE IS CLOGGED WITH TRAFFIC. Non-stop honking
text: horns, pedestrians crowding the sidewalk. Huge billboards,
text: giant movie marquees, garbage bags piled high everywhere.
text: Underneath it all we hear a TINKLING PIANO playing something
text: bouncy and fast-paced.
text: FROM ACROSS THE BUSY CITY STREET, we see Joker. He's dressed
text: as a sad-faced HOBO CLOWN. This is his job.
text: Dressed in tattered clothes, dark five o'clock shadow painted
text: on his face, big bulbous red nose, his mouth's outlined in
text: white, turned down at the corners.
text: He's holding up a sign in front of Kenny's Music Shop that
text: reads, "EVERYTHING MUST GO!" A banner above the store reads,
text: "GOING OUT OF BUSINESS!" Behind him, an OLD MAN plays a piano
text: on the street. Both of them there to draw attention to the
text: big sale going on in the store.
text: Joker's doing a little Charlie Chaplin like waddle to the
text: music. Most people walk right past, ignoring him. A few bump
text: into him by mistake.
text: JOKER SEES A GROUP OF FIVE BOYS, no more than 15-years-old,
text: walking toward him. He moves out of their way. They crack up
text: laughing when they see him. Start making fun of him.
dialog: 6.
text: Joker ignores them, tries to do his job the best he can while
text: maintaining some dignity. Keeps dancing and holding up the
dialog: sign.
text: One of the kids knocks the sign out of Joker's hands--
speaker_heading: KID #1
dialog: Suck my dick, clown.
text: The kids laugh. Joker doesn't say anything. Just bends over
dialog: to pick up the sign--
text: Another kid kicks him in the ass--
speaker_heading: KID #2
dialog: Whoops.
text: Joker falls face first onto the sidewalk. Oddly, the old man
text: playing the piano picks up the pace of the music--
text: The kids crack up. One of the boys grabs Joker's sign and
text: takes off running across the street--
text: The other kids follow, weaving through traffic--
text: Joker gets up and gives chase. He needs his sign back.
text: He almost gets hit by a taxi, spinning out of the way just in
text: time-- Spinning right into another taxi that stops just short
dialog: of hitting him.
text: Joker keeps running through traffic. People stare. A clown
dialog: barreling down the street has got to be a joke--
scene_heading: 3 EXT. CORNER, SIDE STREET - GOTHAM SQUARE - CONTINUOUS 3
text: The five boys are booking it down the crowded street laughing
text: and whooping it up. At the last second they take a sharp
text: right turn down a cross street--
text: Joker almost overshoots the corner, slip-sliding in his big
dialog: red shoes--
text: He rights himself and heads down after them--
dialog: Sees them running up ahead--
text: WHAP! Out of nowhere Joker gets hit in the face!
text: He falls to the ground.
text: One of the kids was hiding between parked cars and hit Joker
text: with the "EVERYTHING MUST GO!" sign, splintering it in two--
dialog: 7.
text: The other kids turn back and walk up to Joker down on the
dialog: ground.
text: Joker reaches out, still trying to save the sign--
text: THE KIDS START KICKING AND BEATING THE SHIT out of Joker.
text: It's brutal and vicious. Nobody on the street stops to help.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER'S HOBO CLOWN FACE, down on the ground. Sweat
text: running down his face, smearing his make-up. He doesn't even
text: look like he's in pain. He just takes the beating.
text: That stupid frown painted on his face.
scene_heading: 4 INT. CITY BUS (PULLING OUT) - HEADING DOWNTOWN - DUSK 4
text: Joker, makes his way toward the back of the crowded bus, now
text: walking with a slight limp, but keeping his head held high.
text: His make-up's washed off, costume and props all shoved into a
text: big shopping bag slung over his shoulder. Some white grease-
text: paint still smudged on the sides of his face.
text: He finds an empty seat in the back of the bus. Sees a sad-
text: eyed FOUR-YEAR-OLD GIRL, face puffy from crying, sitting on
text: her knees looking back at him. Her mother's facing forward,
text: but even from behind you can tell she's angry.
text: Joker sees the sad-eyed girl staring straight back at him. He
text: doesn't know where to look, feeling self-conscious and small.
text: He gets back into "character" smiling like a clown and covers
text: his face with his hands-- Starts playing the peek-a-boo game
dialog: with her.
text: The girl stares back at him for a moment then giggles--
speaker_heading: WOMAN ON BUS
dialog: (turns back to Joker;
dialog: already annoyed)
dialog: Can you please stop bothering my
dialog: kid?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I wasn't bothering her, I was--
speaker_heading: WOMAN ON BUS
dialog: (interrupts)
dialog: Just stop.
text: AND SUDDENLY JOKER STARTS TO LAUGH. LOUD. He covers his mouth
text: trying to hide it-- Shakes his head, laughter pausing for a
text: moment, but then it comes on stronger. His eyes are sad. It
text: actually looks like the laughter causes him pain.
dialog: 8.
text: People on the bus are staring. The girl looks like she's
text: going to cry again.
speaker_heading: WOMAN ON BUS
dialog: You think that's funny?
text: Joker shakes his head no, but he can't stop laughing. He
text: reaches in his pocket and pulls out a small card. Hands it to
dialog: the woman.
text: CLOSE ON THE CARD, it reads: "Forgive my laughter. I have a
dialog: condition (more on back)"
text: She turns the card over and there is a bunch of information
dialog: in small writing--
text: "It's a medical condition causing sudden, frequent, uncontrollable laughter that
dialog: doesn't match how you feel. It can happen in people with a brain injury or certain
dialog: neurological conditions."
dialog: She doesn't read it (but if you freeze frame the movie you
text: could). She just shakes her head annoyed and throws the card
text: on the ground.
text: Joker laughs harder. Tears running down his face.
dialog: Not wanting to attract any more attention to himself, he
text: pulls up his red hood, and uses his threadbare scarf to cover
text: his mouth, trying to muffle the laughter.
text: He looks out at the city passing him by.
scene_heading: 5 EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE, STREETS - GOTHAM - EVENING 5
text: The bus pulls away, sun almost gone.
text: Joker heads slowly down the litter-covered streets. Garbage
text: is piled along the sidewalks, the air thick with smog creates
text: a haze over everything.
text: The streets are crowded with the poor, the elderly and
text: disenfranchised. Women with children in busted strollers.
text: Homeless people sleeping on subway grates. Stray dogs. His is
text: one of the few white faces.
text: Joker makes his way into a run-down drug store, behind him
text: two drunks fight on the corner, beating the shit out of each
dialog: other. Joker, and nobody else for that matter, pays them any
dialog: attention.
dialog: No one here gives a shit.
dialog: 9.
scene_heading: 6 INT. LOBBY, APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING 6
text: A shabby lobby in a building that was once probably pretty
dialog: nice, but now it's a dump.
text: Joker checks his mailbox. He's holding a small white
text: (prescription) bag in his hand.
text: The mailbox is empty.
scene_heading: 7 INT. ELEVATOR, APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 7
text: Joker steps onto the wheezing elevator, harsh fluorescent
text: lights, graffiti on the walls. As the door closes, he hears--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE (OS)
dialog: Wait!!
text: He puts his foot out with some panache to stop the closing
dialog: door-- He's a romantic at heart. Ding.
text: And SOPHIE DUMOND (late 20's), tired eyes, hands filled with
text: grocery bags, steps onto the elevator with GIGI, her 5-year-
dialog: old daughter.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Of course it's you,-- everyone else
dialog: in this building is just so fucking
dialog: rude.
text: Joker nods "thanks." Holds his breath, hoping he doesn't
text: start to laugh.
text: Floors dinging as the elevator rises.
text: Joker sees GiGi licking the dirty smudged elevator handrail
text: behind her mom.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: How's your mom doing?
text: He takes a deep breath, he's uncomfortable talking to her,
text: holds up the white prescription bag.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's day to day. I'm doing
dialog: everything I can to get her back on
dialog: her feet.
dialog: (re: pharmacy bag)
dialog: Picked up her medicine. Gonna make
dialog: her some dinner.
dialog: 10.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (smiles; being polite)
dialog: She's lucky she has you--
text: Joker smiles thanks, can't help but glance at GiGi licking
dialog: the rail.
text: Sophie finally notices. She wants to grab her but can't with
text: her hands full. Tries to kick her away--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Jesus. Don't do that, GiGi! How
dialog: many times have I told you that?
dialog: (to Joker)
dialog: This building is so awful, isn't
dialog: it?
text: Joker just nods... he doesn't know what to say, but clearly
dialog: wants to continue this conversation with Sophie.
text: The doors open. They all step off.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Okay. Well, tell your mom I said
dialog: hello.
text: And Sophie and GiGi walk down the hall-- the opposite way of
text: Joker. He just stands there for a beat. Heart beating fast.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (calls out after her)
dialog: Hey Sophie--
text: She turns around.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I'll tell my mom you said hello.
dialog: She smiles as in "yeah, that's what I said."
scene_heading: 8 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, FRONT DOOR - EVENING 8
text: Old apartment, worn carpet. Nothing's new inside but it's
text: fairly neat and well-kept.
text: Joker closes the door behind him, leans his back against it
text: and swoons. Hears a deep purring sound. He looks down and
text: sees an OLD ORANGE CAT, rubbing up against his leg.
dialog: Then--
dialog: 11.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: (shattering the moment,
dialog: calls out)
dialog: Happy?! Did you check the mail
dialog: before you came up?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yes, Ma. Nothing. No letter.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: You sure you looked? Sometimes I
dialog: don't know where your head is.
text: Joker glances back down and sees the cat is gone.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yes I'm sure. And my head's right
dialog: here. I'm gonna make you some
dialog: dinner, okay?
speaker_heading: QUICK CUTS:
text: JOKER TEARS OPEN THE PRESCRIPTION BAG... A FLURRY OF PILL
text: BOTTLES TUMBLE OUT ONTO THE COUNTER.
text: SEE HIS NAME, "ARTHUR FLECK" ON THE ORANGE PILL BOTTLES, AND
scene_heading: GLIMPSE THE GENERIC DRUG NAMES, TEMAZEPAM... PERPHENAZINE...
scene_heading: AHENELZINE... AMITRIPTYLINE... BENZEDRINE... DIAZEPAM...
text: MEPROBAMATE...
text: TAKES OUT ONE PILL FROM EACH THE TEMAZEPAM AND MEPROBAMATE
speaker_heading: BOTTLES.
text: TWO PILLS BEING CRUSHED UP TO POWDER.
text: SPRINKLES THE POWDER ON TOP OF A TV DINNER.
text: SWALLOWS A HANDFUL OF PILLS FROM THE OTHER BOTTLES.
text: LOOKS DOWN AND SMILES AT THE ORANGE CAT LOOKING UP AT HIM
text: FROM THE COUNTER.
scene_heading: 9 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, APARTMENT - NIGHT 9
text: Joker brings the food to his mother, PENNY (70's), lying in
text: her bed. The TV is on, playing the local news.
text: Joker sets the food down in front of his mother. He covers
text: the pain from his beating the best he can-- His mother
text: doesn't seem to notice anyway.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: He must not be getting my letters.
dialog: 12.
text: Joker sits down on a chair next to the bed.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: He's a busy man.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Too busy for me? I worked for that
dialog: family for 12 years. He always had
dialog: a smile for me. Least he could do
text: is write back.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Ma, eat. You need to eat.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: You need to eat. Look how skinny
dialog: you are.
text: Before Joker can say anything, his mother points to the news
dialog: on the TV--
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: All day long it's more bad news.
dialog: That's all there is.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Maybe you shouldn't watch so much
dialog: television.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: (ignoring)
dialog: He's the only hope for Gotham.
dialog: He'll make a great mayor. Everybody
dialog: says so.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (playful)
dialog: Everybody who? Who do you talk to?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Well everybody on the news.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Stop it. He's not even gonna run.
dialog: Why would Thomas Wayne want to be
dialog: mayor? He can do more good as a
dialog: businessman.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Because he cares about this city.
dialog: And everyone in it-- that's why I
dialog: can't believe he hasn't written me
dialog: back.
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: He will. Now eat some dinner.
text: He feeds her a bite of the food.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How you feeling today?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: I don't know. It always hits me
dialog: worse at night, you notice that?
text: He shakes his head.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (teasing)
dialog: Maybe it's the moon. Maybe you're a
dialog: werewolf?
text: HE HOWLS SOFTLY like a wolf. She laughs.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: It's not funny.
text: Joker watches her as he cuts up some more of her food.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Anyway, I wrote a new letter today.
dialog: A better one. I want you to hand
dialog: deliver it to him.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What? Why?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Cause maybe the mailman is throwing
dialog: them away. We should have tipped
dialog: him at Christmas time.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Who tips their mailman?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Some people do. Rich people do.
text: Joker sighs, resigned.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Okay. I can try his office.
dialog: Tomorrow.
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: (she pats the bed)
dialog: Come sit. It's almost on.
text: Joker gets into bed with her.
text: CLOSE ON TELEVISION, intro to "LIVE WITH MURRAY FRANKLIN!",
text: and we HEAR THE ANNOUNCER over clips of comedy bits, stars
dialog: and Murray Franklin himself--
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER (ON TV)
dialog: It's Live with Murray Franklin!
dialog: Tonight Murray welcomes, Sandra
dialog: Winger, comedian Skip Byron and the
dialog: piano stylings of Yeldon &amp; Chantel!
dialog: As always, Don Ellis and his Jazz
dialog: Orchestra. And now, without any
dialog: further ado-- Murray Franklin!
text: Joker and his mom watch from bed, this is a ritual of theirs.
scene_heading: 10 INT. LIVING ROOM, MOM'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 10
text: Late night. Joker's mom is dead asleep. Joker is alone in the
text: living room, which doubles as his bedroom. He can't ever
text: sleep. He opens his worn notebook. Flips to a page titled
dialog: "Jokes" and starts writing--
text: CLOSE ON WORDS, as he slowly writes: "The worst part about
dialog: having a mental illness is..."
text: ANGLE ON JOKER, pausing, thinking it over for a moment. Then
text: he laughs to himself when he comes up with something.
text: CLOSE ON WORDS, coming faster now, "...that people still
dialog: expect you to behave as if you don't."
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 11 EXT. WAYNE TOWER, STREET - MIDTOWN - MORNING 11
text: Joker's looking up at the intimidating steel and glass tower,
text: he looks so small, holding his mom's letter in his hand.
text: Bustle of professionals coming in and out of the company's
text: corporate headquarters, Joker looks out of place.
text: He heads inside through the giant glass doors.
dialog: 15.
scene_heading: 12 INT. RECEPTION, WAYNE ENTERPRISES - 25TH FLOOR - MORNING 12
text: Joker steps off an elevator and walks up to the white marble
text: reception desk as if he belongs there--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hello. I have a personal letter for
dialog: Mr. Thomas Wayne.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Okay. You can leave it with me.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's kind of important. I need to
dialog: make sure he gets it himself.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Oh, in that case, I'll buzz you
dialog: right in.
dialog: Joker goes to enter--
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: I'm kidding. Leave it here.
text: He laughs along with her, even though she's not laughing.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Oh. Right-- well, my mom used to
dialog: work for the Wayne family-- for 12
dialog: years. She was their housekeeper.
text: A couple other business people are now waiting behind Joker,
dialog: there for meetings.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: That's great. But you can leave it
dialog: with me or you can leave with the
dialog: letter. Those are your options. Now
dialog: please step aside.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Mr. Wayne knows her. Can you maybe
dialog: at least call back to him? Tell him
dialog: that I'm here.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
text: Thomas Wayne is away on business.
text: Joker is getting frustrated.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Okay. Well, can I have your name?
dialog: So I know who I left it with.
dialog: 16.
text: Now Joker sees a GROUP OF MEN walking behind the glass that
text: separates the reception area from the back offices. Amongst
text: the group, he catches a glimpse of THOMAS WAYNE (60's), deep
text: tan, hair dyed so black it's almost blue.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Wait. He's right there.
dialog: (goes up to the glass,
dialog: shouts)
dialog: Mr. Wayne! Mr. Wayne.
text: He starts banging on the glass... but the group keeps moving.
text: Not noticing him.
speaker_heading: RECEPTIONIST
dialog: Sir. Please stop. Sir!!
text: Joker keeps banging on the glass.
scene_heading: 13 EXT. WAYNE TOWER, FRONT ENTRANCE - MORNING 13
text: The glass doors swing open and Joker is forcibly thrown onto
text: the street. TWO LARGE SECURITY GUARDS stand over him.
text: He is still holding the letter.
text: He makes as if he's going to leave peacefully, then at the
text: last minute, TAKES ANOTHER RUN AT THE DOOR--
text: The two guards stiff arm him.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 14 INT. HA-HA'S TALENT BOOKING, LOCKER ROOM - DAY 14
text: The cramped locker room of a small talent booking agency.
dialog: This is where Joker works. They "rent out" talent for parties
text: and events. Clowns, magicians, male strippers.
text: Joker takes off his shirt, grimaces in pain as he moves. His
text: body's bruised from the beating he took chasing after his
dialog: sign.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (OS)
dialog: You okay?
text: He turns. RANDALL (mid 50's), a big bear of a know-it-all,
text: standing there. He's a party clown as well. He's half-dressed
text: in his clown suit.
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: I heard about the beat down you
dialog: took. Fucking savages.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It was just a bunch of kids. I
dialog: should have left it alone.
text: Randall opens his locker--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: It's crazy out there. And it's only
dialog: getting worse.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods)
dialog: My mother says that the people
dialog: nowadays lack empathy.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What's empathy?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It means like "feeling for other
dialog: people."
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Like sympathy?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Kind of. But different.
text: Randall comes over, hands Joker a brown paper bag-- Joker
text: looks inside. It's a GUN, a .38 snub-nose revolver.
text: Joker looks up at him, confused--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Take it. I got a few. You gotta
dialog: protect yourself out there, buddy.
dialog: Too many wackos.
text: As Joker stares at it--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (lowers his voice)
dialog: It's a .38 snub-nose. Gets the job
dialog: done if you ever need to use it.
dialog: Usually pulling it out is enough.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I, I don't have the money for this,
dialog: Randall.
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Don't sweat it. You can pay me some
dialog: other time. You're my boy.
text: That lands with Joker, he smiles to himself.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (as he walks away)
dialog: But you didn't get it from me,
dialog: okay?
text: Joker nods. Puts the brown paper bag in his locker. Slowly
text: starts to get dressed-- his eyes darting toward the bag as he
dialog: does.
text: Another clown, GARY (30's), a dwarf, pops his head into the
text: locker room.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Arthur,-- Hoyt wants to see you in
dialog: his office.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: No clue.
scene_heading: 15 INT. FRONT OFFICE, HA-HA'S TALENT BOOKING - DAY 15
text: Joker still half-dressed, walks into the cramped office.
text: His boss, HOYT VAUGHN (60's) sits behind a metal desk. The
text: office is a complete mess, newspapers and files litter the
text: desk. A giant ashtray filled with cigarette butts. A calendar
text: of booking hangs on the wall. A scribbled, jumbled mess.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hey Hoyt. Gary said you wanted to
dialog: see me?
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: (without even looking up)
dialog: How's the comedy career? Are you a
dialog: famous stand-up yet?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Not quite. Haven't even performed
dialog: yet. Just been working my material.
dialog: This business is all about fine-
dialog: tuning.
text: Now Hoyt looks up. Takes a drag from his cigarette.
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: Right.
dialog: Joker goes to sit down--
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: Don't sit. This will be quick.
text: Joker stops in his tracks.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: Look, I like you, Arthur. A lot of
dialog: the guys here, they think you're a
dialog: freak. But I like you. I don't even
dialog: know why I like you. I mean, you
dialog: don't say much.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It's probably that stupid laugh. It
dialog: gets me every time. Kills me.
text: Unsure how to respond, Joker just nods.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: But I got another complaint. And
dialog: it's starting to piss me off.
text: Joker takes a deep breath, maybe picks at his eyebrow.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: Kenny's Music. Sunday. The guy said
dialog: you disappeared. Never even
text: returned his sign.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. I got jumped. I told you about
dialog: that.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: For a sign? Bullshit. It makes no
dialog: sense, just give him his sign back.
dialog: He's going out of business for
dialog: god's--
text: BANG! Out of nowhere, Joker slams his head into the wall.
text: Head-butting it hard.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: (taken aback)
dialog: Hey!
text: BANG! BANG! He does it two more times. Breaking the plaster
dialog: on the wall--
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: HOYT
dialog: What the fuck, Arthur?!
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (voice tightens)
dialog: I don't have his sign.
text: And Joker just stares at Hoyt, some blood forming on his
dialog: forehead--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 16 EXT. BACK ALLEY, OUTSIDE HA-HA'S - AMUSEMENT MILE - DAY 16
text: WE'RE AT THE FAR END OF AN ALLEY, about halfway down, catch a
text: glimpse of Joker still half-dressed on the other side of a
text: dumpster. From this vantage, all we can see is him furiously
text: KICKING and STOMPING on something... or somebody.
text: We don't hear anything. And we can't make out what it is that
text: he's so violently beating down.
dialog: It could be a cat... a cardboard box... a homeless person...
dialog: We don't know.
text: Joker just continues unleashing his rage--
scene_heading: 17 INT. CITY BUS (MOVING) - DUSK 17
text: Joker at the end of his work day, sitting in his spot toward
text: the back of the bus.
text: Across the aisle from him, he's innocently watching a young
text: couple, playfully teasing each other.
scene_heading: 18 EXT. GOTHAM, LOWER EAST SIDE - EVENING 18
text: Joker heading back home down the litter-covered streets like
text: he does every night. Garbage still piled along the sidewalks,
text: air still thick with smog.
text: He's carrying the paper bag that Randall gave him.
scene_heading: 19 INT. LOBBY, APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING 19
text: Joker checks his mailbox. Empty.
dialog: 21.
scene_heading: 20 INT. ELEVATOR, APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 20
text: Joker is on the elevator, as the door closes, he sticks his
text: foot out to stop it.
text: The door limps back open. Ding.
text: He looks to see if anybody, if Sophie, is coming. He waits.
dialog: Hoping.
text: The door starts to close on him again-- Right before it does,
text: he stops it with his foot again. Ding.
scene_heading: 21 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, BATHROOM - NIGHT 21
text: JOKER'S GIVING HIS MOM A BATH, being careful with her as he
text: shampoos her hair.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: --so what did he say when you gave
dialog: him the letter?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: They wouldn't let me see him.
dialog: (lying)
dialog: But they promised me it would get
dialog: to him.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: It's good they promised. He only
dialog: works with the best. We should hear
dialog: something soon.
text: He fills an empty plastic container with some bath water.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Look up.
text: She tilts her head back and he rinses her hair with the water
dialog: from the container...
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Why are these letters so important
dialog: to you, Ma? What do you think he's
dialog: gonna do?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: He's gonna help us.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Help us how?
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Get us out of here, take me away
dialog: from this place and these-- these
dialog: awful people.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You worked for him over 30 years
dialog: ago. What makes you think he would
dialog: help you?
text: She looks at him with conviction.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Because Thomas Wayne is a good man.
dialog: If he knew how I was living, if he
dialog: saw this place, it would make him
dialog: sick. I can't explain it to you any
dialog: better than that.
text: Joker nods. Annoyed, but not worth the argument. He stands up
dialog: to get her a towel.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't want you worrying about
dialog: money. Everyone's been telling me
dialog: they think my stand-up is ready for
dialog: the big clubs. It's just a matter
dialog: of time before I get a break.
text: She steps into the towel. He's helping dry her off.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Happy, what makes you think you
dialog: could do that?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What do you mean?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: I mean, don't you have to be funny
dialog: to be a comedian?
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 22 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT 22
text: Joker's mom is out cold in her bedroom, a half-eaten plate of
text: food is next to her on the bed.
dialog: 23.
scene_heading: 23 INT. LIVING ROOM, MOM'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS 23
text: Joker sits on the couch. The TV is on, but the sound is off.
text: He holds the .38 SNUB-NOSE REVOLVER Randall gave him in his
text: hand. He's never held a gun before, looks uncomfortable with
text: it, the weight of it in his hand...
text: He points it at the TV, hand trembling a bit... Points it at
text: the cat... Points it at his head.
text: Looks closely at the grip. The barrel. The cylinder. Now he
text: casually pulls the trigger--
speaker_heading: BLAMMMMMMM!
text: He jumps up off the couch. What the fuck!? He looks around in
text: a panic. His hands shaking.
text: He shot a hole in the wall.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: (awoken by the shot)
dialog: HAPPY!? What was that?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What?!
text: He quickly turns up the TV volume. REALLY LOUD. Shoves the
text: still smoking gun under the couch cushions.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: THAT NOISE! DID YOU HEAR THAT
speaker_heading: NOISE?
text: He's inspecting the hole in the wall. Shouts back over the TV
dialog: noise--
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: I'M WATCHING AN OLD WAR MOVIE.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: TURN IT DOWN!
text: He heads for his mother's bedroom.
scene_heading: 24 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, DOORWAY - CONTINUOUS 24
text: Joker looks in on his mom in her dark bedroom, can make out
text: the outline of her body sitting up.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: It's so loud.
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I know. The Americans are really
dialog: giving it to the Japs.
text: He walks over to her in the darkness. Kisses her on the
dialog: forehead.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (softly)
dialog: I'm sorry. I'll turn it down.
scene_heading: 25 INT. KITCHEN, MOM'S APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT 25
text: Joker is writing in his journal. He speaks softly to himself
dialog: as he writes...
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Why didn't Randall tell me the gun
dialog: was loaded? He's my friend. With my
dialog: luck, I could have killed someone.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I could have killed myself.
text: CLOSE ON THE LAST LINE, he crosses out "could"...
dialog: Writes... "should".
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (still to himself)
dialog: I should have killed myself.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER as he crosses out something again...
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (louder to himself)
dialog: I should kill myself.
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 26 EXT. STREET, LOWER EAST SIDE - MORNING 26
text: HANDHELD POV, see the run-down building where Joker lives
text: from across the street.
text: REVEAL, Joker is watching his own building on the far side of
text: a parked truck. Red hood pulled up, covering his head. He
text: waits. Watches.
text: Now we see Sophie exiting the building with her daughter
dialog: GiGi. Sophie's dressed more conservatively than when we
dialog: previously met her.
dialog: 25.
text: Joker starts following them.
scene_heading: 27 EXT. PUBLIC SCHOOL - MORNING 27
text: Sophie drops GiGi off at school. Joker's still watching.
dialog: Following.
scene_heading: 28 EXT. ELEVATED SUBWAY PLATFORM - MORNING 28
text: Sophie waits on the platform. Lights a cigarette.
text: We see Joker, hidden behind a steel support beam-- watching
text: her from a distance.
scene_heading: 29 INT. SUBWAY (MOVING) - MORNING 29
text: Joker stands at the window between two subway cars. Just
text: watching Sophie as she reads a book in the next car.
text: The train comes to a stop and she exits. Joker exits as well.
scene_heading: 30 EXT. STREET, UPPER EAST SIDE - MORNING 30
text: Nicer part of Gotham. Joker follows Sophie from a distance,
text: watches as she walks into Gotham First National Bank.
text: Sees her say hello to the guard. This is where she works.
text: Joker just watches and waits.
scene_heading: 31 INT. GOTHAM FIRST NATIONAL - LATER 31
text: A large, mid-level bank. Sophie is one of THREE BANK TELLERS
text: working behind the plexiglass windows.
text: Joker pulls the hood back off his head, takes a deep breath
text: before he walks up to her window. She is looking down,
text: counting her drawer.
text: Takes another deep breath. Then--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hello. I'd like to open an account.
text: She looks up.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Hey, what are you doing up here?
dialog: 26.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Oh, hi. That's weird.
dialog: (pausing to see if he's
dialog: gonna laugh; he's good)
dialog: I didn't know you worked at a bank.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Pretty glamorous, right?
text: Not getting the sarcasm, Joker nods. Looks around.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Very glamorous. Look at this place.
text: She laughs.
text: He stands there awkwardly for a moment looking around to see
text: what she's laughing about.
text: Realizes she thought he was making a joke.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I'm a comedian. I do stand-up
dialog: comedy.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Really? I had no idea.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah. You know, I'm always making
dialog: funny observations. Always on the
dialog: look out for my next bit-- so it
dialog: makes sense.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Right. Anyway, is there something I
dialog: could help you with?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I said hi to my mom.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Last week. You said to say hi to my
dialog: mom. I did. Made her day.
text: They are interrupted by the BRANCH MANAGER (50's), white,
text: heavy-set, who has come up behind Sophie--
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: BRANCH MANAGER
dialog: Everything okay here?
text: He puts his heavy hand on Sophie's shoulder. She practically
text: shudders from his touch.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Everything is fine Mr. Slotnick.
text: Now he leans down and whispers something in her ear-- Joker
text: just watches through the glass.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
text: (shakes her head; to her
dialog: manager)
dialog: No. He's not. He's interested in
dialog: opening an account.
speaker_heading: BRANCH MANAGER
dialog: (to Joker)
dialog: Great. You just need to fill out a
dialog: form. They are back there-- against
dialog: the wall.
text: As the manager talks, Sophie makes wide eyes at Joker, like
dialog: "I almost got in trouble."
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (covering; trying to act
dialog: cool)
dialog: Okay. Thank you, sir. And thank you
dialog: as well, Miss.
text: Joker walks back to the wall by the forms.
text: He fumbles around for a minute, clearly not there to open an
text: account. He begins filling out a form. Then--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (shouts out, to no one in
dialog: particular)
dialog: YOU KNOW WHAT?! I FORGOT MY ID!
dialog: I'LL BE BACK. THANK YOU.
text: He walks out of the bank. Head in the clouds.
scene_heading: 32 INT. GOTHAM COMEDY CLUB, CHINATOWN - NIGHT 32
text: Joker sitting in the middle of a dark, crowded comedy club.
text: People on dates. Groups of friends. All here to watch the
text: stand-up. He sits at a small table by himself, watching the
text: act on stage.
dialog: 28.
text: The comic on stage is killing it. The whole room is laughing
text: and applauding. Everyone except Joker.
text: He's watching. Studying. Diligently jotting down notes in his
dialog: notebook.
scene_heading: 33 EXT. GOTHAM COMEDY CLUB, STREET - CHINATOWN - NIGHT 33
text: People are piling out of the club, onto the narrow street,
text: jumble of lit-up signs, most glowing yellow or red. Joker
text: walks out alone, carrying his notebook. He sees a FLYER taped
text: to the entrance of the club.
text: CLOSE ON THE FLYER, "Open mic night. Thursdays. 10pm."
text: He rips the flyer off the wall.
scene_heading: 34 INT. HA-HA'S TALENT BOOKING, LOCKER ROOM - DAY 34
text: Joker is working on his "Mr. Jingles" clown look, using the
text: small mirror in his locker. Behind him a couple of other
text: clowns are eating their lunch at a small table, not paying
dialog: Joker any attention.
text: Joker pauses half-finished, and stares at himself for a beat.
text: He starts to examine the two small scars on the corners of
text: his mouth, we really notice how they form a smile. Joker
text: hooks the corners of his mouth down with his index fingers,
text: turning his smile into a frown--
text: He lets go and his smile returns.
text: Does it again, up and down, up and down, his face a living
dialog: comedy/tragedy mask.
text: And then he pulls his fingers wider, stretching his smile
text: into a grotesque parody, pulling his mouth so wide tears come
dialog: to his eyes--
text: AND WE HEAR JOKER SINGING "If You're Happy and You Know It"
text: at his next gig.
speaker_heading: JOKER (PRE-LAP)
dialog: (singing)
dialog: --if you're happy and you know it
dialog: and you really want to show it, if
dialog: you're happy and you know it clap
dialog: your hands.
dialog: 29.
scene_heading: 35 INT. GOTHAM GENERAL - CHILDREN'S WARD - EVENING 35
text: Joker is performing for a ward full of sick children, wearing
text: an oversized white lab coat over his "Mr. Jingles" clown
text: costume. A few nurses and doctors watch as well.
text: His white clown face, mouth outlined in black and filled in
text: with red, his green wig frizzy and worn out. Joker plays a
text: UKULELE along with the song.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: If you're happy and you know it,
dialog: stomp your feet.
text: Joker and the kids stomp and sing along.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: If you're happy and you know it,
dialog: stomp your feet.
dialog: (stomp, stomp)
dialog: If you're happy and you know it and
dialog: you really want to show it, if
dialog: you're happy and you know it stomp
dialog: your feet.
text: As the song winds down, the KIDS and NURSES clap.
text: Joker takes an exaggerated and ridiculous bow--
text: And as he does, his .38 SNUB-NOSE REVOLVER slips out of his
text: pants and slides across the floor.
text: Everyone stops. Looks at the gun on the floor.
scene_heading: 36 INT. LOBBY, GOTHAM GENERAL - LATER 36
text: Joker is on a payphone in the lobby of the hospital. He's in
text: his street clothes, wig in his hand, clown-face still painted
dialog: on.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hoyt, let me explain.
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Oh, this'll be good. Please tell me
dialog: why you brought a gun into a sick
dialog: kid's ward?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: It was, it was a prop gun. It's
dialog: part of my act now.
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Bullshit. Jingles would never carry
dialog: a fucking gun. Besides, Randall
dialog: told me you tried to buy a .38 off
dialog: him last week.
text: Joker's taken aback that Randall would do that to him.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Randall told you that?
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: He was with me when the call came
dialog: in. You're a fuck up, Arthur. And a
dialog: liar. You're fired.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Hoyt--
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Say it, Arthur.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Let me hear you say it.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Say what?
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: I'm a fuck up and I'm fired.
text: Joker picks at his eyebrow.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone; low)
dialog: --I'm a fuck up and I'm fired.
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Louder.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone; louder)
dialog: I'm a fuck up and I'm fired.
speaker_heading: HOYT (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Yes. You are.
text: Click. He hears Hoyt hang up.
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 31.
scene_heading: 37 INT. SUBWAY (MOVING) - NIGHT 37
text: JOKER SITS ON THE SUBWAY CONTEMPLATING WHAT JUST WENT DOWN,
text: face still painted, his bag on the seat next to him, along
text: with his wig.
text: There's only one other person on the subway car, a YOUNG
text: WOMAN (30's) sitting at the far end-- reading a book.
text: The train comes to a stop and THREE WALL STREET GUYS enter.
text: They are being loud and obnoxious, clearly drunk. One of them
text: is eating some french fries out of a greasy McDonald's bag.
text: He flops down on the bench across from the girl and checks
text: her out. The other two guys start getting into it with each
dialog: other--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: --I'm telling you, she wanted my
dialog: number. We should have just stayed.
text: The train starts moving again...
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #2
dialog: You're dreaming, man. She wasn't
dialog: interested-- at all.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: Are you nuts? Did you see how close
dialog: we were dancing!? She was in love,
dialog: bro.
text: He starts dancing a bit with himself, mimicking what he
text: remembers. Wall Street #2 takes a swig from the brown bag he
text: is carrying.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #2
dialog: She couldn't wait to get away from
dialog: you.
text: Joker is watching them closely, impressed by their confidence
dialog: and easy-going camaraderie.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: (to the third guy)
dialog: Ryan, am I crazy? Tell him what you
dialog: saw.
dialog: But the third Wall Street guy isn't paying his friends any
text: attention. He has his eyes set on the young woman sitting
text: across from him, reading her book.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: (to the girl)
dialog: Hey. You want some french fries?
dialog: 32.
text: He holds out his McDonald's bag and shakes it to get her
text: attention. The other two share a look. Joker watches from his
dialog: seat.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: Hello? I'm talking to you. You want
dialog: some fries?
text: She looks up and shakes her head, polite smile.
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: No thank you.
text: The other two guys crack up at this apparent blow-off. The
text: third Wall Street guy shakes his head, embarrassed, and
text: starts softly flinging fries at the young woman.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: You sure? They're really good.
text: She just buries her face deeper in her book--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #2
dialog: Don't ignore him. He's being nice
dialog: to you.
text: One of the french fries lands in her hair. She looks down
text: toward Joker, looking to see if he's going to do something or
dialog: say something--
text: Joker just sits there nervous. Not sure what to do, or even
dialog: if he wants to do anything at all.
text: AND HE JUST BURSTS OUT LAUGHING. He covers his mouth with his
text: hand as they continue to harass the woman.
dialog: They all look over-- What the fuck is this clown laughing at?
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: Something funny, asshole?
text: With their attention diverted, the young woman rushes out
text: through the door between subway cars, glancing back at Joker
dialog: before she goes--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: (shouts after her)
speaker_heading: BITCH!
text: Joker laughs even harder through his hand. The Wall Street
text: guys turn to him sitting by himself at the end of the car--
dialog: 33.
text: Joker sees them staring. Looks down at the ground, hand still
text: covering his mouth, face turning red. Subway swaying, lights
text: flickering on and off.
dialog: Beat.
text: One of the guys heads down the car toward Joker, starts
text: singing "Send in the Clowns" as he approaches--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Isn't it rich?
dialog: Are we a pair?
dialog: Me here, at last on the ground
dialog: You in mid-air
dialog: Send in the clowns.
text: The others crack up and follow after him. The guy plops down
text: next to Joker, puts his arm around his shoulder as he sings--
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (shakes his head, stifling
dialog: the laughter)
dialog: Please. Don't.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: (continues singing to him)
dialog: Isn't it bliss?
dialog: Don't you approve?
text: One who keeps tearing around,
dialog: One who can't move.
text: Joker starts to get up-- The lead guy pulls him back down.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: Where are the clowns?
dialog: There ought to be clowns.
text: As he finishes the song, Joker's laughing fit is coming to an
text: end. One of the other guys sits down on the other side of
text: him. He's now sandwiched in between them--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #2
dialog: So tell us, buddy. What's so
dialog: fucking funny?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Nothing. I have a condition--
text: Joker reaches into his bag to get one of his "Forgive my
text: laughter" cards, the third guy sees him reaching and tries to
dialog: grab the bag from him---
dialog: Joker pulls on it--
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. It's just my stuff. I don't
dialog: have anything.
text: The guy rips the bag from his hand--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: I'll tell you what you have,
dialog: asshole.
text: Joker gets up from between them to go grab his bag back. The
text: two guys are cracking up.
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #3
dialog: You want it back? Here--
text: Joker reaches out to grab the bag--
text: And the guy tosses it over his head to one of his friends.
text: Keeping it away from Joker.
text: Three guys in suits tossing a bag around, playing 'monkey in
text: the middle' with a clown. THE LIGHTS ON THE TRAIN SEEM TO
text: GLOW BRIGHTER AND WE HEAR the drum roll opening to BOBBY
text: SHORT singing "Send in the Clowns" Live at the Caf Carlyle.
text: Joker keeps trying to catch his bag until suddenly--
text: WHAP! Out of nowhere one of the guys punches him hard in the
dialog: face.
text: Joker goes down as if in slow motion. Blood coming from his
text: nose. He tries to get up, but his feet slip from under him
text: and he falls back down--
speaker_heading: WALL STREET #1
dialog: Stay down you freak.
text: And the third Wall Street guy starts kicking him--
text: The others join in. Surrounding Joker on the ground, kicking
text: him deliberately, sadistically, and the music swells--
speaker_heading: BLAM!
text: SUDDENLY THE LIGHTS GO BACK DIM, and one of the guys stops
text: kicking and falls back dead. Blood splattering on the subway
text: wall behind him--
text: And we HEAR Bobby Short sing out, picking up from where the
dialog: Wall Street Guy left off--
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: BOBBY SHORT (SINGING)
dialog: Just when I'd stopped opening doors
dialog: Finally knowin' the one that I
dialog: wanted was yours
text: BLAM! BLAM! Wall Street #2 goes down--
text: Revealing Joker on the ground, opening his eyes to see what
text: he did, smoking gun in his hand--
speaker_heading: BOBBY SHORT (SINGING)
dialog: Making my entrance again with my
dialog: usual flair
dialog: Sure of my lines
dialog: No one is there
text: The third guy takes off running for the doors that separate
dialog: the cars.
text: Joker starts after him, but then stops... turns back to grab
text: his bag and his wig, his hands shaking from the adrenaline.
text: The train is coming to a stop.
speaker_heading: BOBBY SHORT (SINGING)
dialog: Don't you love farce?
dialog: My fault I fear...
text: Joker picks up his bag between the two dead bodies, blood
dialog: everywhere...
text: The subway doors wheeze open and Joker steps halfway off the
text: train, waiting to see if the third Wall Street guy gets off
text: in the car ahead of him. Joker sees him run off--
scene_heading: 38 EXT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - CONTINUOUS 38
text: The platform is empty, the Wall Street guy is running toward
dialog: the stairs--
dialog: Joker follows--
text: Behind them, the train pulls away--
speaker_heading: BOBBY SHORT (SINGING)
dialog: I thought that you'd want what I
dialog: want.
dialog: Sorry, my dear.
text: The guy makes his way to the stairs, unaware that Joker is
dialog: behind him--
speaker_heading: BLAM!
dialog: 36.
text: The third guy falls, tumbling down the stairs. Joker walks
text: over to the body and empties the chamber-- BLAM! BLAM!
speaker_heading: BOBBY SHORT (SINGING)
dialog: But where are the clowns?
dialog: Quick, send in the clowns
dialog: Don't bother they're here.
text: And as "Send in the Clowns" ends, Joker fires the last shot--
dialog: BLAM! He's got nothing left.
scene_heading: 39 EXT. STREET, ROBINSON SQUARE PARK - NIGHT 39
text: Joker hauls ass out of the subway and makes a mad dash across
text: a busy street, horns honking--
text: Running as fast as he can past piles of garbage, he takes a
text: sharp turn high-tailing into a small, run-down needle park,
text: disappearing into the darkness.
scene_heading: 40 INT. PUBLIC BATHROOM, ROBINSON SQUARE PARK - NIGHT 40
text: Joker runs into the bathroom, locks the door behind him and
text: SUDDENLY EVERYTHING HITS HIM ALL AT ONCE--
text: He throws up into the dirty toilet, puking his guts out--
text: He finishes, wipes his mouth with the back of his hand. And
text: pulls the gun out of his waist, looking around for someplace
text: to throw it out. Under the sink he sees a rusted, metal grate
text: hanging off the wall covering some pipes.
text: Before he bends down, Joker catches his reflection in the
text: smudged mirror. Sees himself holding the gun in his hand--
dialog: Beat.
text: He raises the gun to his head and pulls the trigger--
dialog: Click.
text: It's empty.
text: He gets down on his knees, sweat dripping off his face, pulls
text: the grate away from the wall. And tosses the gun away inside.
text: Moves the grate back in place.
text: Joker stands back up and turns on the faucets. Rinses out his
dialog: mouth.
text: Looks at his smudged reflection as he starts washing the
text: clown make-up off his sweaty face--
dialog: 37.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hi. Do you like to laugh?
text: Water dripping, white grease paint running off his face--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Remember how I told you that I'm a
dialog: stand-up comedian?
dialog: (again)
dialog: Hi. How are you?
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 41 INT. APARTMENT BUILDING, LOBBY - LATER 41
text: Joker enters his building with great urgency. No time for the
text: elevator, he takes the stairs. Two at a time.
text: He races up the stairwell.
scene_heading: 42 INT. HALLWAY, APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS 42
text: When he gets to his floor, instead of making a left toward
text: his apartment-- He makes a right, toward Sophie's. He stops
text: at her door. Out of breath.
text: Knocks.
text: He hears footsteps. Quickly pulls the folded-up flyer out of
text: his pocket.
text: The peephole in the door goes dark and then light again. He
text: hears locks unlocking. Sophie opens the door halfway--
text: Joker looks down at his feet--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hi. Do you like to laugh?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (continuing without taking
dialog: a breath)
dialog: Remember the other day when I told
dialog: you about my stand-up comedy. Well,
dialog: I'm doing a set next Thursday and
dialog: I'm inviting a bunch of my friends
dialog: and I was wondering if maybe you
dialog: wanted to come and check it out.
dialog: 38.
text: He reaches out to give Sophie the flyer, she opens the door
text: wider-- He notices her face, sees her eyes are red.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Were you crying? Why are you
dialog: crying?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: I had a bad day.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I'm sorry. I, I didn't--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: It's okay. How would you know.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: I got fired. From the bank.
text: Joker takes a deep breath and smiles without realizing it,
text: hoping he doesn't start to laugh.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Because,-- I don't know. It doesn't
dialog: fucking matter. I don't know what
dialog: I'm gonna do.
text: And she starts crying again. Joker doesn't move. Just stands
text: in the doorway awkward.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (finally)
dialog: Okay. Well, all the info is right
text: there on the flyer.
text: He starts to walk away, then turns back to her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You know they say laughter is the
dialog: best medicine.
text: Sophie wipes her eyes and manages a smile.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Is that what they say?
dialog: 39.
text: Joker just nods yes and walks back toward his mother's
dialog: apartment.
scene_heading: 43 INT. DEPT. OF HEALTH, OFFICE - MORNING 43
text: JOKER SITS ACROSS from the same Social Worker from the
text: opening scene. Same depressing office.
text: She stares at him for a beat, clearly annoyed.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: We spoke about this last time,
dialog: Arthur. You're supposed to bring
dialog: your journal with you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Well I didn't think you were going
dialog: to read it.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: You said it didn't bother you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I lied. Everything bothers me.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: What about it bothered you?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's personal. It's my private
dialog: thoughts. Plus it contains original
dialog: comedy material that I don't feel
dialog: comfortable handing over to you.
text: She looks at him and shakes her head. Not in the mood to deal
dialog: with this.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: Arthur, I have some bad news for
dialog: you.
text: He looks up, intrigued.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: They've cut our funding. We're
dialog: closing down our offices next week.
text: He looks around, just noticing some MOVING BOXES stacked
text: against the wall.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: So where will we be meeting?
dialog: 40.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: We won't be. The city's cut funding
dialog: across the board. Social services
dialog: is part of that.
text: Joker nods, not hating the idea.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Okay.
speaker_heading: SOCIAL WORKER
dialog: They don't give a shit about people
dialog: like you, Arthur. You don't have a
dialog: voice and they don't really care
dialog: what happens to you or to us for
dialog: that matter.
text: He sits there for a moment. And then it dawns on him--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How am I gonna get my medication?
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 44 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, KITCHEN - MORNING 44
text: CLOSE ON A COUPLE OF PILLS, as they get crushed up.
text: CLOSE ON THE RESIDUE, as it's sprinkled on top of a bowl of
dialog: oatmeal.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: Happy! Come in here. Thomas Wayne
text: is on TV.
text: Joker takes a couple of pills for himself. Looks inside. Not
text: many left. He looks over at the orange cat sitting on the
text: counter, purring loudly, watching him.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: Quick! Come.
scene_heading: 45 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS 45
text: Joker walks in carrying her breakfast. She waves him over to
dialog: her bed.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: They're interviewing him about
dialog: those horrible murders on the
dialog: subway last week.
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Why are they talking to him?
text: His mother shushes him. Joker sits on the end of the bed next
dialog: to her. It's one of those "Good Morning, Gotham" shows.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (ON TV)
dialog: --as you know, Jerry, all three of
dialog: them worked at Wayne Investments,
dialog: and they were the best of the best.
text: Solid young men.
text: A small smirk registers on Joker's face when photos of the
text: THREE WALL STREET GUYS come up on the screen.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (ON TV)
dialog: And while I didn't know them
dialog: personally, like all Wayne
dialog: employees, past and present, they
dialog: were family.
dialog: Joker's mom perks up at that--
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: You hear that! I told you. We're
dialog: family.
text: ANGLE ON TELEVISION, footage of GRAFFITI around the city.
text: "KILL THE RICH" spray painted on a storefront. "F CK WALL
text: STREET" written on a subway wall. "RESIST" scrawled across a
dialog: billboard.
scene_heading: "GOOD MORNING" HOST (ON TV)
text: There now seems to be a groundswell
text: of anti-rich sentiment in the city.
dialog: It's almost as if our less
dialog: fortunate residents have taken the
dialog: side of the killer.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (ON TV)
dialog: Yes and it's a shame. It's one of
dialog: the reasons I'm considering a run
text: for mayor. Gotham has lost its way.
scene_heading: "GOOD MORNING" HOST (ON TV)
dialog: Are you announcing your candidacy?
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (ON TV)
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: No comment.
text: We hear his mother gasp, excited.
dialog: 42.
scene_heading: "GOOD MORNING" HOST (ON TV)
dialog: What about the eyewitness report of
dialog: the suspect being a man in clown
dialog: make-up or a clown mask-- Care to
dialog: comment on that?
text: Joker leans in, intrigued. The camera zooms in closer to
text: Thomas Wayne on the screen...
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (ON TV)
dialog: It makes total sense to me. What
dialog: kind of coward would do something
dialog: that cold-blooded? Someone who
text: hides behind a mask. Someone who's
dialog: envious of those more fortunate
dialog: than themselves, yet too scared to
dialog: show their own face.
dialog: (to camera)
dialog: And until that jealousy ends, those
dialog: of us who've made a good life for
dialog: ourselves will always look at those
dialog: who haven't as nothing but clowns.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 46 INT. COMEDY CLUB, BACKSTAGE HALLWAY - NIGHT 46
text: JOKER'S POV, slowly walking down the hall -- as if in slow
text: motion -- toward a curtain at the end, spotlight bleeding
text: through, other wannabe comics looking at him as he passes--
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, eyeing the others, sweat beading on his
dialog: forehead--
text: He gets to the curtain, the light, pulls his worn joke-
text: notebook out of his back pocket. Glancing into the room he
text: sees it's a pretty good crowd. Sees Sophie taking a seat in
dialog: the back.
text: Wheeling back into the dark hallway, he catches his breath in
dialog: the shadows--
text: And starts BANGING HIS HEAD BACK against the wall--
text: He hears the EMCEE from the stage.
speaker_heading: EMCEE (OS)
dialog: This next comic describes himself
dialog: as a lifelong Gotham resident who
dialog: from a young age was always told
dialog: that "his purpose in life was to
dialog: bring joy and laughter into this
dialog: cold, dark world." Ummm. Okay.
dialog: 43.
text: He hears the crowd laugh.
speaker_heading: EMCEE (OS)
dialog: Please help me welcome Arthur
dialog: Fleck!
text: There is a smattering of applause.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: JOKER STEPPING ON STAGE, out under the spotlight, lifts the
text: microphone in front of his mouth, the light so bright he
text: can't see faces in the dark audience, his hand trembling
text: holding onto his worn notebook--
text: He takes a deep breath, looks out at the dark crowd, and
text: opens his mouth.
text: And starts to laugh. His eyes go wide. God no, not now. A
text: terrified look comes to his face under the laughter. He just
text: keeps laughing. The crowd is just staring back at him.
dialog: Finally he composes himself--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (trying to stop himself
dialog: from laughing)
dialog: -- good evening, hello.
dialog: (deep breath; trying to
dialog: stop laughing)
dialog: Good to be here.
dialog: (keeps cracking up)
dialog: I, I hated school as a kid. But my
dialog: mother would always say,--
dialog: (bad imitation of his mom,
dialog: still laughing)
dialog: "You should enjoy it. One day
dialog: you'll have to work for a living."
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: "No I won't, Ma. I'm gonna be a
dialog: comedian!"
text: Dead silence. Except for Joker, who's still cracking up.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 47 EXT. COMEDY CLUB, CHINATOWN STREET - NIGHT 47
text: Joker and Sophie walking out of the club after the show, the
text: audience trickles out around them. Nobody looking in Joker's
text: direction, nobody says anything to him, maybe one or two even
text: cracking up at him behind his back. Garbage bags crowding the
text: narrow street, lit up by the bright signs.
dialog: 44.
text: Joker and Sophie walk a ways without saying a word. Awkward
dialog: silence.
dialog: Then--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: So, did you laugh? Really couldn't
dialog: see much from up there.
text: Sophie pauses, doesn't know what to say. She lights up a
dialog: cigarette.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (trying to be nice)
dialog: Of course. Yeah. You couldn't hear
dialog: anything?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: All I heard was my heart pounding.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: It was good. I really needed to get
dialog: out of my apartment so, thanks.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: What happened to the rest of your
dialog: friends?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What friends?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Didn't you say some of your friends
dialog: were coming?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (he forgot; recovers)
dialog: Yeah, I decided not to invite them.
dialog: As a performer sometimes you want
text: to see how a "real" crowd reacts.
dialog: People who don't already love me,
dialog: or, or have a notion of who I am,
dialog: you know?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Yeah. I get that.
text: Joker smiles at the connection. They walk past a newsstand--
text: a wall of Chinese language newspapers mixed with local papers
text: and tabloids, screaming headlines about the three Wall Street
text: Guys gunned down on the train.
text: Joker stops and stares at the headlines--
dialog: 45.
text: CLOSE ON HEADLINES, "Subway Vigilante"... "Yuppie Slaughter"
dialog: "Killer Clown On The Loose?"...
speaker_heading: SOPHIE (OS)
dialog: (re: the headlines)
dialog: You believe that shit?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah,-- I don't know how something
dialog: like that happens.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Please. I'll bet you five bucks
dialog: those rich assholes deserved it.
text: He turns to her.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You think?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Look at their faces. Those smug
dialog: smiles. I've seen that look. Fuck
dialog: them.
text: Sophie flicks her cigarette away and starts walking.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: The guy who did it is a hero. Three
dialog: less pricks in Gotham City. Woo-
dialog: hoo! Only a million more to go.
text: Joker watches her walk for a beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (calls out to her)
dialog: Hey. You want to get some coffee?
text: Sophie turns around and smiles. She looks great, even in
text: front of the mounds of garbage bags that line the sidewalk.
text: AN AMBULANCE SCREAMS BY, SIRENS BLARING as Sophie says
text: something that Joker doesn't hear. She keeps walking.
text: Joker chases after her and trips over a TIN GARBAGE CAN LID--
text: CLANG. CLANG. He falls down flat on his face.
text: Sophie turns and bursts out laughing. She can't help but
text: laugh. It's the first time she's laughed all night.
dialog: 46.
scene_heading: 48 INT. SZECHUAN ACE RESTAURANT, TABLE - NIGHT 48
text: Table covered with plates of half-eaten Chinese food.
text: Joker and Sophie sitting across from each other, middle of
text: conversation. Crowded room, brightly lit, looks more like a
text: casino. Almost everybody eating there is Chinese. It's loud.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: --I'm telling you, it's across the
dialog: board. Wall Street, the banks,
dialog: politicians. They've been making a
dialog: killing for years. Fuck them.
text: Joker takes a moment to think about what she said.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: What don't you know?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Not all of them are awful. Take
dialog: someone like Thomas Wayne for
dialog: example. He's a hero.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Oh c'mon, he's the worst!
dialog: Joker is taken aback--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Sophie, he's the only one who can
dialog: save this city.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: You can't be serious!? He's a
dialog: complete narcissist. Brags about
text: his money. Meanwhile, the rest of
dialog: us can barely make rent. Or feed
dialog: our kids.
text: Joker nods. Thinking about it.
dialog: Then--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: With what?
dialog: 47.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: With your job. At the bank?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (suddenly uncomfortable)
dialog: Oh. Yeah, I was, um,--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: We don't have to talk about it.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Have you ever been fired before?
text: Joker thinks it over for a moment.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Every time.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: And have you ever wanted to torch
dialog: the place?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (thinks it over again)
dialog: Every time.
text: Sophie smiles.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Right. And this was like the first
dialog: good job I had in like, years. Not
dialog: waitressing or anything like that.
dialog: It was 9-5. I had benefits. You
dialog: know what that means when you have
dialog: a kid?
text: Joker just looks at her, he doesn't really know what that
text: means. He just smiles.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: But from the very first day, the
text: manager guy starts smiling at me,
text: whispering in my ear, touching me,
dialog: trying to get me to sleep with him--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Did you do it? Did you go to bed
dialog: with him?
dialog: 48.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Fuck no. The guy's a fucking pig.
dialog: So finally I complained to his
dialog: boss, and they fired me... And now,
dialog: now I don't know what to do with
dialog: myself.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Right. Wait, what do you mean?
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: I finally felt good. Like I had a
dialog: future. A purpose. And now I don't
dialog: even know how I'm gonna pay my
dialog: rent.
text: AND JOKER STARTS LAUGHING. He puts a hand over his mouth
text: trying to cover it, but he can't stop cracking up--
text: It's unsettling and disturbing for Sophie. People eating,
text: waiters in red vests, busboys, all look over and stare at
text: him. A few laugh. Joker turns away embarrassed, he looks out
text: the plate-glass window, face turning red from laughing so
dialog: hard--
text: AS HE LOOKS OUT, HE SEES A GROUP OF ROWDY KIDS walking down
text: the street. One of them glances back before he turns the
text: corner-- HE'S WEARING A CLOWN MASK THAT LOOKS JUST JOKER'S
text: CLOWN FACE. And then he's gone. The group disappears around
dialog: the corner--
text: Joker can't believe his eyes, still laughing-- He turns to
text: Sophie who didn't see them. Just sits there awkwardly waiting
dialog: for it to stop.
text: Finally, it subsides--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (catching his breath)
dialog: I'm sorry. I have this thing--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: I know.
text: Awkward beat.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: How did you get it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know. I read you can get it
dialog: from a brain injury or, or a lesion
dialog: in there. My mom said I was born
dialog: this way. Born laughing.
dialog: 49.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Is that why she calls you Happy?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Kind of. That actually started when
dialog: I was a kid. The other kids made
dialog: fun of me, called me Happy-- but
dialog: not in a good way. I got so sick of
dialog: it, one day when I was about ten,
dialog: I, I,--
text: He smiles.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I took a razor and cut this smile
dialog: onto my face.
text: (she's taken aback as he
dialog: points to the scars)
dialog: Sort of like "You want happy? Here,
dialog: how's this for happy?"
text: He looks down, still smiling. She just watches him for a
dialog: beat.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I've been thinking about this night
dialog: my whole life.
text: They just sit there for a beat. Quiet.
scene_heading: 49 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 49
text: Joker opening the door to his mother's apartment, holding a
text: doggie bag in his hand, sees the flickering blue light of the
text: TV on in the living room, hears the end of "LIVE WITH MURRAY
text: FRANKLIN!" He locks the locks, drawing the security chain
text: high on the door.
text: TURNS TO CATCH A GLIMPSE OF HIS MOTHER PASSED OUT in the
text: living room, the cat jumping up next to her on the chair.
text: Joker watches for a beat as Murray does his signature sign
dialog: off, the one he's been doing for years--
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: (looking into camera)
dialog: Good night! And always remember,--
dialog: That's life.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (quietly)
dialog: "That's life."
text: He hears Don Ellis and his Jazz Orchestra playing the show's
text: closing song-- the instrumental version of Frank Sinatra's
dialog: "That's Life".
text: As the music continues, Joker puts his face up against his
text: mom's nose, to see if she's breathing or if she's dead.
text: He feels her breath against his cheek.
text: Now he picks his mother up in his arms and carries her into
text: her bedroom to the music, almost as if he's dancing with her
text: as he leaves the room...
dialog: We stay behind.
text: "That's Life" still playing from TV.
text: He comes back into the living room and turns off the TV.
text: Takes off his jacket and throws it on the couch. Notices
text: something sticking out of his jacket pocket. He pulls it out.
dialog: It's the envelope he was supposed to deliver to Thomas Wayne.
text: He stares at it for a beat. And then--
text: Quietly rips it open, starts to read the letter:
dialog: CLOSE ON WORDS, "Dearest Thomas, I don't know where else to
dialog: turn..."
dialog: "Need your help..."
dialog: "You have a son. We have a son. His name is Arthur."
dialog: Stops reading, stays on--
dialog: "You have a son."
text: JOKER STARING DOWN AT THE LETTER, reading those words over
dialog: and over again -- "You have a son."
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 51.
scene_heading: 50 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING 50
text: JOKER'S SITTING IN A CHAIR in his mother's room watching her
text: sleep. He has clearly been up all night. Still wearing the
dialog: same clothes.
text: He's holding her letter in his hand as the sun is just
text: starting to rise outside the windows, light just beginning to
dialog: crack the gloom.
text: THE ORANGE CAT SITS AT HIS FEET staring up at him, won't take
text: her eyes off of him.
text: Joker impatiently sits there for another moment waiting for
text: his mother to wake up, then suddenly--
text: SHRIEKS OUT AT THE TOP OF HIS LUNGS like a teapot, kicking
text: his back on the chair like an excited toddler--
text: His mother wakes with a start, looking around half asleep and
dialog: confused--
text: Joker turns and sees the cat run out of the room--
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: --what, what time is it?
text: He doesn't answer.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: What happened? Did you hurt
dialog: yourself again?
text: Joker holds her letter up in his hand.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What is this? How come you never
dialog: told me?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Is, is that my letter? Is that my
dialog: letter, Happy?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How could you not tell me, Ma?
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: You told me you dropped it off.
dialog: You have no right opening my mail.
dialog: Who do you think you are?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (raising his voice;
dialog: excited)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 52.
speaker_heading: JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Apparently I'm Thomas Wayne's son!
dialog: How could you keep that from me?
text: His mother slowly getting up out of bed.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: Stop yelling at me, you're gonna
dialog: kill me, give me a heart attack!
text: She goes into the bathroom.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (shouts after her)
dialog: I'm not yelling! I'm just, excited.
dialog: How can any of this be real!? How
dialog: can Thomas Wayne be my father?
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
text: (shouts back from behind
dialog: the door)
dialog: I'm not talking to you until you
dialog: calm down.
text: Joker sits for a minute then gets up and goes to her bathroom
text: door. Talks to his mother from the behind the closed door.
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (lowers his voice; trying
dialog: to sound calm)
dialog: Okay. How's this, Mom? Better? Will
dialog: you please talk to me?
text: Joker leans in closer to the door. Leaning against it with
dialog: just his head--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Please.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: He is an extraordinary man, Arthur.
dialog: We had a connection. I was so
dialog: beautiful then. We were in love.
text: Joker just leans there, listening. He closes his eyes, it's
dialog: all too much.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
text: His wife could see it. She was
dialog: jealous from the moment I started
dialog: working there. She fired me before
dialog: I even knew I was pregnant with
dialog: you.
dialog: (hear her crying now)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: MOM (OS) (CONT'D)
dialog: And, I never told him or anybody
dialog: because, well, you can imagine what
dialog: people would say about Thomas and
dialog: me, and, and what they would say
dialog: about you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (eyes still closed, head
dialog: leaning against the door)
dialog: What would they say, Ma?
speaker_heading: MOM (OS)
dialog: That I was a whore, and Thomas
dialog: Wayne was a fornicator, and that
dialog: you're a little, unwanted bastard.
text: AND THE BATHROOM DOOR SUDDENLY SWINGS OPEN, and Joker falls
dialog: face first into the bathroom--
text: Just missing his mother, crashing down onto the floor--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 51 EXT. BOARDWALK, AMUSEMENT MILE - MORNING 51
text: Joker heads down the boardwalk toward Ha-Ha's, a bounce in
dialog: his step.
text: Looming behind him like the skeletons of monsters, a
text: sprawling rickety-looking wooden roller coaster and the
text: gigantic steel Wonder Wheel in the amusement park by the
text: ocean. Sound of waves crashing, seagulls squawking.
scene_heading: 52 INT. HA-HA'S TALENT BOOKING, LOCKER ROOM - MORNING 52
text: Joker walks into the locker room, sees Randall half-dressed
text: for work, red nose, big pants, big shoes, no wig yet, sitting
text: with Gary, TWO OTHER CLOWNS AND A MAGICIAN around the small
text: table, shooting the shit, drinking coffee.
text: They nod hello at Joker or give him a perfunctory wave, most
text: of his co-workers think he's a freak.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Hey Art, I heard what happened--
dialog: I'm sorry man.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Yeah, Hoyt did you wrong, buddy.
dialog: Doesn't seem fair.
dialog: 54.
text: Joker looks hard at Randall for a moment, just slowly nods,
text: and continues on to his locker.
text: He starts to clean it out, stuffing all of his clown gear
text: into an old brown paper shopping bag. Hears them talking
text: about him behind his back, about why he got fired, laughing
dialog: at him--
speaker_heading: HA-HA CLOWN #1 (OS)
dialog: Did you really bring a gun to the
dialog: kid's hospital, Artie? What the
dialog: fuck would you do that for?
text: Joker doesn't answer them, just continues emptying his
text: locker, a bag of balloons, a magic wand, some trick flowers--
speaker_heading: HA-HA CLOWN #2
dialog: No, I heard he pulled it out and
text: waved it around like a cowboy.
text: His co-workers crack up. Joker answers the guy without
dialog: looking back--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It was a prop gun. And I didn't
text: pull it out, it fell out.
speaker_heading: MAGICIAN
dialog: So is that part of your new act? If
dialog: your singing doesn't do the trick,
dialog: you just gonna shoot yourself?
dialog: More laughter.
speaker_heading: HA-HA CLOWN #2
dialog: I thought Jingles was a lover not a
dialog: fighter.
text: Joker turns and looks at all of them, nods at Randall--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Why don't you ask Randall about it?
dialog: It was his idea.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (to Randall)
dialog: Since when do you use a prop gun?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What? I don't. Stop talking outta
dialog: your ass, Art!
dialog: (to the guys)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: RANDALL (CONT'D)
dialog: I think all his stupid laughing
dialog: musta scrambled his brain or
dialog: something.
text: The guys laugh and keep jawing. Joker doesn't say anything.
text: Just finishes packing his bag and closes his locker door--
scene_heading: 53 EXT. HA-HA'S, BACK ALLEY - AMUSEMENT MILE BOARDWALK - MORNING
dialog: 53
text: Joker exits the back door holding onto his brown shopping bag
text: under his arm, starts down the alley.
text: Behind him, Randall hustles out and chases down the alley
text: after him, still half-dressed for work.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Art! Hold up,--
text: As he catches up with Joker his red nose falls off, but he's
text: so out of breath he doesn't realize he lost it--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What the fuck was that about?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Why would you say that? That, that
dialog: it was my idea.
text: Joker just looks back at Randall. Sees his red Styrofoam nose
text: bouncing down the alley behind him.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: ...
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: You don't get it, do you, buddy,
dialog: that shit that went down on the
dialog: subway, that's no joke. They got
text: clown sketches on the front of
dialog: every fucking paper. It's just a
dialog: matter of time before the cops come
dialog: around.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know anything about it.
dialog: 56.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (leans in close; lowers
dialog: his voice)
dialog: Art, you know you're my boy. I'm
dialog: not gonna say shit. I just hope you
dialog: got rid of that gun. That can't
dialog: come back on me, okay?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Randall, I didn't shoot anybody.
dialog: That wasn't me. And I don't have
dialog: time for this, I got somebody real
dialog: important I gotta go see.
dialog: Joker turns to go--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: You know they're sellin' masks.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (turning back around)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: They're selling masks of your clown
dialog: face,-- based off the description I
dialog: guess. It's like a thing now.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: There's a lot of people in this
dialog: city who are happy you did what you
dialog: did. If you did it.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Randall. Your nose.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: What?
text: Randall touches his face. Realizes his nose is not there.
text: Joker points to Randall's clown nose tumbling back down the
text: alley. And Randall hustles after it, chasing after his red
text: nose blowing skipping away in the wind--
scene_heading: 54 INT. METRO TRAIN (MOVING) - COUNTRYSIDE, OUTSIDE GOTHAM - 54
speaker_heading: NEXT AFTERNOON
scene_heading: CLOSE ON NEW "KILLER CLOWN" SKETCH ON FRONT PAGE OF THAT
text: DAY'S TABLOID, a more detailed drawing.
dialog: 57.
text: HEADLINE, "KILLER CLOWN STILL ON THE LOOSE!"
dialog: SUB-HEAD, "'Kill the Rich' -- A New Movement?"
text: ANGLE ON JOKER LOOKING DOWN AT HIS NOTEBOOK, STARING AT A
text: PHOTOGRAPH OF THOMAS WAYNE RIPPED OUT FROM A MAGAZINE, taped
text: to a page. He glances at his distorted reflection in the
text: window, takes his hand and parts his hair to the side, more
text: like Thomas Wayne's hair. Maybe there is a resemblance.
text: WIDER ANGLE, train is packed with wealthy white businessmen
text: and a couple businesswomen heading home after work, many of
text: them reading the same tabloid. The "Killer Clown" sketch of
text: Joker's clown face dots the train. No empty seats -- except
dialog: the one next to Joker.
scene_heading: 55 INT. TAXI CAB (MOVING), COUNTRYSIDE - AFTERNOON 55
text: JOKER IN THE BACK OF A TAXI STARING OUT AT THE COUNTRYSIDE,
text: at the trees and green grass and blue sky and open spaces
text: whizzing by. The sun is getting low, bathing everything in a
text: golden light.
text: He doesn't see garbage anywhere.
scene_heading: 56 EXT. WAYNE MANOR, FRONT LAWN - MAGIC HOUR 56
text: Joker walking along an intimidating wrought iron fence,
text: surrounding the estate like prison bars, the brown paper
text: shopping bag stuffed under his arm. The big house set up a
text: small hill, evergreens dot the lush grounds. As he walks
text: around looking for the front entrance, Joker catches a
text: glimpse of an innocent looking EIGHT-YEAR-OLD BOY tracking
text: him from behind the trees, hiding as he follows.
text: Joker stops.
text: He sees the boy stop behind a tree.
text: Joker continues walking until he gets to the front gate. He
text: digs into his bag and pulls out the magic wand--
text: He holds it up for the boy to see.
text: The boy steps out from behind a tree to get a closer look.
text: Joker puts the brown bag down on the ground, looks over the
text: wand, pretending like he's trying to figure out what it does.
text: He waves the wand over the front gate lock to "try and see"
dialog: if it will open-- It doesn't.
dialog: 58.
text: The little boy walks down toward the fence, face like an
dialog: angel.
text: Joker waits until he gets closer and then reaches his hand
text: through the fence and hands the kid his magic wand so he can
dialog: try and figure out what it does--
text: The boy takes the wand and it goes limp in his hand before he
text: can wave it-- He laughs, surprised. He hands it back to
dialog: Joker.
text: The boys sees Joker's face up close, staring at his scarred
dialog: smile--
text: Joker straightens the wand back out, and reaches in through
text: the fence again so the kid can give it another try.
text: AND AGAIN THE MAGIC WAND DROOPS IN THE BOY'S HAND. He laughs
dialog: and gives it back to Joker--
text: Joker examines the wand as if its "broken", stiffens it one
text: last time, crouches down lower, and...
text: Ta-da! A bouquet of flowers bursts out the end of the wand--
text: Joker smiles and hands him the wand bouquet of flowers--
text: The little boy takes the flowers. Keeps staring at Joker, at
text: the scars around his mouth.
text: Now, he reaches his hand out through the fence and touches
text: Joker's face, tracing his finger around the edges of Joker's
text: mouth, over his scarred smile--
text: Joker closes his eyes -- embarrassed -- but it feels good to
dialog: him, nobody ever touches him besides his mother.
text: He starts to smile, when a man's voice shatters the moment--
speaker_heading: ALFRED (OS)
dialog: (shouting; slight English
dialog: accent)
dialog: Bruce! What are you doing? Get away
dialog: from that man.
text: The little boy pulls his hand back. Turns and runs away--
text: Joker looks up and sees a balding, tired-looking, ALFRED
text: PENNYWORTH (50's) bounding down the hill toward them.
text: Joker stands back up.
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (still shouting)
dialog: What are you doing? Who are you?
text: Little Bruce runs behind Alfred, hiding behind his legs.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: My name's Arthur. I'm here to see
dialog: Mr. Wayne--
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You shouldn't be talking to his
dialog: son. Why did you give him those
dialog: flowers?
text: Alfred takes the flower-wand away from the kid--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I, I was just trying to make him
dialog: laugh.
text: He hands it back to Joker.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Well it's not funny. Do I need to
dialog: call the police?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No, please. My mother's name is
dialog: Penny Fleck. She used to work here,
dialog: years ago. Can you tell Mr. Wayne
dialog: that I need to see him?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (color drains from his
dialog: face; beat)
dialog: You're her son?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Did you know her?
text: Alfred doesn't say anything.
text: Joker puts his face right up against the bars, whispers so
dialog: the boy can't hear him--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You don't need to cover for them.
dialog: I'm sure Mrs. Wayne was very upset
dialog: when she found out.
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: There was nothing to find out
dialog: about. Your mother was, was
text: delusional. She was a sick woman.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. No, just let me speak to Mr.
dialog: Wayne.
text: Now Alfred leans in closer to Joker, almost looks like he
dialog: feels some pity for him--
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Please just go, before you make a
dialog: fool of yourself.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (blurts out)
dialog: Thomas Wayne is my father--
text: Alfred looks at Joker, and can't help but crack up laughing
text: at him.
text: AND JOKER REACHES THROUGH THE BARS AND GRABS HIM. Pulls him
text: in close, trying to choke him, still holding the wand of
dialog: flowers in one hand--
text: AS HE CHOKES ALFRED, Joker sees little Bruce, wide-eyed in
text: the shadows, looking out at him in horror.
text: Joker stops.
text: Lets go of Alfred... Takes off running back down the street
text: away from Wayne Manor, magic wand in hand, leaving the rest
text: of his clown gear behind.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 57 EXT. LOWER EAST SIDE, STREETS - NIGHT 57
text: JOKER'S BACK IN HIS PART OF TOWN, garbage everywhere here.
text: The neighborhood at night is alive. Loud kids on the street
text: corners... A drunk seemingly fights no one... Hookers working
text: the street... He hears a wailing siren...
text: As Joker turns the corner, he sees AN AMBULANCE PARKED in
text: front of his building. Lights flashing. Hit with a sense of
text: dread, he runs toward the building--
dialog: 61.
scene_heading: 58 EXT. STREET, APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT 58
text: A SMALL CROWD OF GAWKERS have gathered around watching the
text: drama unfold. Shouting and laughing, loud dance music blaring
text: out an open window, feels like an impromptu block party.
text: Joker runs up, sees his mother being wheeled down the front
text: steps unconscious on a stretcher, AN EMT holding an oxygen
text: bag on her face. TWO DETECTIVES IN PLAIN SUITS following
text: behind them. It's a chaotic scene.
text: FROM ABOVE, Joker pushing through the crowd, rushes to his
text: mother's side. We don't hear what he says to the paramedics
text: over the music and the crowd, just see them nod okay and
text: Joker follow after them into the back of the ambulance--
scene_heading: 59 INT. CITY AMBULANCE, BACK (PARKED) - NIGHT 59
text: Joker looking out the back doors as they start to shut close--
text: CATCHES A GLIMPSE OF SOPHIE, coming out of the building. He
text: stares at her through the small back door window. Casually
text: waves at her, trying to connect with her--
text: Joker sees the two detectives approaching Sophie as the
text: ambulance pulls away. Speeding away down the street, siren
dialog: wailing--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 60 INT. CITY HOSPITAL, EMERGENCY TREATMENT ROOM - NIGHT 60
text: Joker's standing near the doorway of a large overcrowded
text: treatment room. Watching a sleep-deprived ER RESIDENT (late
text: 20's), and an EMERGENCY NURSE start to intubate his mother.
text: He hears shouts and cries of pain from around the crowded
dialog: room.
text: Joker turns away when he sees them insert a thin endotracheal
text: tube into her mouth and down through her larynx. It makes him
dialog: gag--
scene_heading: 61 EXT. CITY HOSPITAL, ER - NIGHT 61
text: Joker sits on a bench outside the bustling emergency room.
dialog: He's getting some fresh air, but he picked a weird spot to do
dialog: it.
text: He watches the sick and dying being rushed through the glass
text: doors. Opening and closing. This happens in the background
text: throughout the scene.
dialog: 62.
text: The two detectives walk up to Joker, interrupting him
text: watching the doors. Gotham police detectives, GARRITY (50's),
text: grey hair, and BURKE (30's), his partner.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: Mr. Fleck, sorry to bother you, I'm
dialog: Detective Garrity, this is my
dialog: partner Detective Burke.
text: Joker looks up at them. Doesn't say anything.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: We had a few questions for you, but
dialog: you weren't home. So we spoke to
dialog: your mother.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You did this to her?
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: What? No. We just asked her some
dialog: questions and she started getting
text: hysterical-- hyperventilating,
dialog: trouble speaking-- then she
text: collapsed. Hit her head pretty
dialog: hard.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: They told me she had a stroke.
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: Sorry to hear that.
text: AND JOKER BURSTS OUT LAUGHING, he can't stop it.
text: The detectives are taken aback. They don't know what to make
text: of him laughing. They share a look.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: (confused)
dialog: I'm lost. Is something funny?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (laughter choking up in
dialog: his throat)
dialog: No I,-- I have a, a--
text: Tears rolling down his face, he takes out one of his cards
text: and hands it to Det. Burke. Burke glances over the card, a
text: skeptical look on his face.
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Okay. But we have some questions
dialog: for you.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: About those subway killings from a
dialog: few weeks ago.
text: Joker pauses for a moment, his laughter subsiding. He holds
text: his breath.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know anything about that.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: We have an eyewitness who described
text: a white male, about 6 feet tall, in
text: clown make up. Or a clown mask.
dialog: Spoke to your boss at Ha-Ha's, Mr.
dialog: Vaughn, and he said you were on a
dialog: job the day of the shooting.
text: Joker's still holding his breath, he nods yes.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: (just continues)
dialog: He also said you got fired that
dialog: day,-- For bringing a gun into the
dialog: children's hospital.
text: And Joker cracks up again, his laughter coming back harder--
text: He covers his mouth with his hand, shaking his head no, his
text: face now turning red.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: You weren't fired?
text: Joker catches his breath as the intensity of his laughter
text: starts to wane, petering out.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Not for having a gun. That was prop
dialog: gun. Part of my act.
text: Joker's laughter finally stops for good.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: So why were you fired?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: They said I wasn't funny.
text: The detectives share another look.
dialog: 64.
text: Joker stands up.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Now, if you don't mind, I have to
dialog: go back and look after my mother.
text: Detective Burke steps close to him, holds up the card that
dialog: Joker handed him--
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Hey lemme ask you a question? This
dialog: condition of yours,-- Is this real
dialog: or is this like some sorta clown
dialog: thing?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Clown thing?
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: I mean, is it part of your act?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What do you think?
text: And Joker walks away-- heads for the sliding glass doors.
dialog: Only the motion detector doesn't engage--
text: AND HE SLAMS RIGHT INTO THE GLASS DOOR.
speaker_heading: HARD.
text: He bounces back.
scene_heading: 62 INT. HALLWAY, NURSE'S STATION - CITY HOSPITAL - NIGHT 62
text: Joker walking down the hallway, ER flooded with the poor and
text: uninsured. Overwhelmed doctors and nurses trying their best
text: to keep up. He stops at the busy nurse's station, and stands
text: there for a moment, trying to get a nurse's attention--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Excuse me, I was wondering how I
dialog: could check my mother out of here?
text: One of the nurses at the desk looks up at him, seems slightly
dialog: annoyed.
speaker_heading: ER NURSE
dialog: What's your mother's name?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Penny Fleck. I'd like to take her
dialog: home.
dialog: 65.
text: The sleep-deprived ER RESIDENT who was working on his mother
text: overhears Joker, comes over to talk to him with a clipboard
text: in his hand. Joker recognizes him--
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: Mr. Fleck, your mother had a
dialog: stroke. It's very serious. You
dialog: can't "check her out." She's gonna
dialog: be here for at least a week.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: She's not gonna wanna stay that
dialog: long. She doesn't like hospitals.
dialog: Or doctors.
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: I'm sorry to hear that. But she
dialog: can't just leave.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't like hospitals either.
dialog: Beat.
text: The resident just nods okay. Looks down at his clipboard--
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: Listen, I wanted to talk you about
dialog: something we noticed in her tox
dialog: report. We found heavy traces of
text: multiple medications in her system.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Okay. Thanks.
text: He turns to go, but the resident continues--
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: One of them's perphenazine. It's a
dialog: powerful anti-psychotic. If she was
dialog: taking that regularly and then
text: suddenly stopped, the withdrawal
dialog: could have contributed to her
dialog: stroke. Did you notice any
dialog: symptoms?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Symptoms?
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: Withdrawal symptoms. Nausea...
text: anxiety... hallucinations.
text: Joker shakes his head, no.
dialog: 66.
speaker_heading: ER RESIDENT
dialog: Do you know how long she's been
dialog: taking it?
text: Joker shakes his head no again, leans in closer to the
dialog: resident--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Can you tell me what those symptoms
dialog: are again?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 63 INT. PATIENT BAY, EMERGENCY TREATMENT ROOM - NIGHT 63
text: CLOSE ON TV, Murray Franklin is in the middle of doing his
dialog: monologue.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: So I told my youngest son, Tommy,
dialog: remember he's the 'not so bright'
dialog: one,--
dialog: (laughter)
dialog: I told him that the garbage strike
text: is still going on. And he says, and
dialog: I'm not kidding, Tommy says, "So
dialog: where are we gonna get all our
dialog: garbage from?"
text: Murray Franklin cracks up at his own joke. Studio audience
dialog: laughs.
text: JOKER LAUGHS, LYING IN BED NEXT TO HIS UNCONSCIOUS MOTHER in
text: the large overcrowded treatment room.
text: Blue curtain dividers separate the bays. He's watching the
text: show on a TV bolted high on the wall. He glances over at his
text: mother, laughing over the sounds of her labored breath, the
dialog: pain and suffering of those around him.
text: He looks back up at the television.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: And finally, in a world where
dialog: everyone thinks they could do my
dialog: job, we got this videotape from the
dialog: Gotham Comedy Club. Here's a guy
dialog: who thinks if you just keep
dialog: laughing, it'll somehow make you
dialog: funny. Check out this joker.
dialog: 67.
text: EXTREME CLOSE ON TV, GRAINY VIDEO OF JOKER'S STAND-UP
text: PERFORMANCE. Joker on stage smiling behind the microphone,
text: under the harsh spotlight.
text: Joker watching himself on TV, his jaw drops--
speaker_heading: JOKER (ON TV)
dialog: (trying to stop himself
dialog: from laughing)
dialog: -- good evening, hello.
dialog: (deep breath; trying to
dialog: stop laughing)
dialog: Good to be here.
dialog: (keeps cracking up)
dialog: I, I hated school as a kid. But my
dialog: mother would always say,--
dialog: (bad imitation of his mom,
dialog: still laughing)
dialog: "You should enjoy it. One day
dialog: you'll have to work for a living."
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: "No I won't, Ma. I'm gonna be a
dialog: comedian!"
text: Back to Murray Franklin shaking his head, trying not to
dialog: laugh.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: You should have listened to your
dialog: mother.
text: The studio audience erupts into laughter.
text: ANGLE ON JOKER, watching Murray Franklin make fun of him on
text: TV. He gets up and starts walking toward the TV set as if in
text: a trance. Unsure if this is really happening.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: One more, Bernie. Let's see one
dialog: more. I love this guy.
text: The tape continues of Joker at the comedy club.
speaker_heading: JOKER (ON TV)
dialog: It's funny, when I was a little boy
dialog: and told people I wanted to be a
dialog: comedian, everyone laughed at me.
text: (opens his arms like a big
dialog: shot)
text: Well no one is laughing now.
text: Dead silence. Nobody is laughing. Not even him.
text: CUT BACK CLOSE ON MURRAY FRANKLIN, just shaking his head.
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: You can say that again, pal!
text: Murray cracks up and the studio audience laughs along with
dialog: him.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, looking up at the television, hearing them
text: all laughing at him.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT:
text: Joker is dragging a chair to the television set.
text: In a rage, he gets up on the chair and tries to pull the TV
text: out of the wall, as the show continues to play--
text: But the set is firmly secured to the wall, and Joker pulls so
text: hard the chair flips from underneath him and he goes flying
text: up the air, crashing down hard onto the floor.
scene_heading: 64 INT. CAFETERIA, CITY HOSPITAL - EARLY MORNING 64
text: Joker walks with a plastic tray of food. Some runny eggs and
text: a coffee. He keeps his head down so no one can see his face.
text: There are a few DOCTORS AND NURSES sitting and chatting at
text: one table. A group of ORDERLIES are sitting together at
dialog: another table.
text: He goes and sits down in the far corner, far away from
text: everyone else. Sees a tabloid newspaper left on the table,
text: and picks it up to read so he doesn't seem so alone.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON FRONT PAGE HEADLINE, "Thomas Wayne Announces Run",
text: over a full-page campaign-style photograph of Thomas Wayne
text: waving to a crowd standing next to his wife, MARTHA (50's), a
text: severe looking, well-preserved former model, and little Bruce
text: Wayne standing in front of them. Photo catches Bruce looking
text: into camera, eyes wide, scared by the crowd.
scene_heading: SUB-HEADLINE READS, "Protest Planned at Wayne Hall Opening
dialog: Tonight"
text: Joker stares at the family photo.
text: CLOSE ON BRUCE WAYNE IN PHOTO, Joker's fingers ripping his
text: picture out of the front page.
speaker_heading: YOUNG DOCTOR (OS)
dialog: -- I'm sorry to bother you, but can
dialog: you settle an argument for us?
dialog: 69.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER LOOKING UP, interrupted from ripping out the
text: picture. One YOUNG DOCTOR and TWO NURSES are standing around
text: him. We stay with Joker, don't see their faces. Just their
text: bodies, all dressed in green scrubs, uniforms.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Excuse me?
speaker_heading: YOUNG DOCTOR (OS)
dialog: You were the guy on Murray Franklin
dialog: last night, right?
text: He hears the nurses giggle.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No, sorry. Wasn't me.
speaker_heading: NURSE #1 (OS)
dialog: Of course it was you. You were the
dialog: comedian.
speaker_heading: YOUNG DOCTOR (OS)
dialog: Except you weren't funny. You
dialog: didn't tell any jokes.
text: He hears the nurses giggle again.
text: STAY CLOSE ON JOKER, getting upset. He just shakes his head.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know what you're talking
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: YOUNG DOCTOR (OS)
dialog: No. It was definitely you, buddy.
dialog: You're the guy who couldn't stop
dialog: laughing. Murray killed you.
text: More laughter. Joker looks up at them.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: If I were you, I'd walk away from
dialog: this table before I strangle all
dialog: three of you with that fucking
dialog: stethoscope hanging from your neck.
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 65 EXT. CENTER FOR PERFORMING ARTS, WAYNE HALL - UPTOWN - DUSK
dialog: 65
text: Joker crosses a busy street heading to the Center for
text: Performing Arts. Light falling. Storm clouds gathering.
dialog: 70.
text: Joker stops when he sees--
text: A CROWD OF PROTESTERS SCREAMING AND SHOUTING IN FRONT OF
text: WAYNE HALL, behind steel barricades. Many wearing Joker's
text: "clown face" mask... A few wave homemade signs, "CLOWN FOR
text: MAYOR"... "KILL THE RICH"... "MR. WAYNE, AM I A CLOWN?"
text: A LINE OF POLICEMEN AND SECURITY GUARDS stand between the
text: crowd and the lit-up white marble building.
text: Joker watches the protest for a moment, then continues across
text: the street. It starts to rain.
scene_heading: 66 EXT. WAYNE HALL, FRONT ENTRANCE - EVENING 66
text: A FIGHT BREAKS OUT between a "clown" masked protester and two
text: cops. The crowd goes crazy, pushing through the barricades
text: toward the building in the driving rain. The police and Wayne
dialog: Hall Security fight to keep them out--
text: Amidst all the chaos, we glimpse Joker slipping into the
dialog: building unnoticed--
scene_heading: 67 INT. LOBBY, WAYNE HALL - EVENING 67
text: Joker walks through the massive multi-level lobby. It's
text: completely empty since the performance has already begun and
text: whatever security was available is outside helping the police
dialog: deal with the protesters.
text: He looks up in awe at the crystal chandeliers... The shiny,
text: marble floor beneath his feet. He's never seen anything this
text: opulent in his entire life.
scene_heading: 68 INT. BACK OF THEATER, WAYNE HALL - EVENING 68
text: JOKER MAKING HIS WAY THROUGH THE DARK SHADOWS ALONG THE BACK
text: WALL OF THE AUDITORIUM, looking for Thomas Wayne in the sold-
dialog: out black-tie audience--
text: He catches bits of Chaplin's MODERN TIMES projected on a
text: screen behind the Gotham Philharmonic playing the silent
text: movie's score... the Tramp roller skating blindfolded on a
text: date with the Gamin (Paulette Goddard) in a department store.
text: He continues moving along the wall from aisle-to-aisle
dialog: looking for Thomas Wayne...
text: The audience laughs as the Tramp skates blindfolded, skirting
text: along the edge of a balcony with no rail, orchestra playing
text: the bouncy score. Joker can't find Thomas Wayne in the dark--
dialog: 71.
text: He moves to the top of the next aisle, pausing to watch more
text: of the film. Suddenly somebody bumps into Joker--
text: He looks up and sees it's one of Thomas Wayne's TWO SECURITY
text: GUARDS, escorting Thomas Wayne out of the auditorium--
text: Joker turns and watches them lead him out. Behind Joker on
text: screen, the Tramp is rescued by the girl before he falls off
dialog: the edge, orchestra swelling--
scene_heading: 69 INT. LOBBY, WAYNE HALL - CONTINUOUS 69
text: Joker peeks his head out of the auditorium, sees Thomas Wayne
text: heading into the men's room, his two security guards waiting
text: by the door, still hear the orchestra playing the score--
text: Joker glances back into the auditorium--
text: Sees a lobby broom and upright dustpan tucked in the back
dialog: corner--
scene_heading: 70 INT. HALLWAY, MEN'S ROOM - WAYNE HALL - SECONDS LATER 70
text: Joker's sweeping up the hallway with his head down, hear the
text: orchestra playing the melancholy "Smile" from the film's
text: score. He sweeps along to the music like Emmett Kelly's
text: famous hobo clown... Sweeping around the two security guards'
text: feet... Annoyed, they move a bit away from the bathroom
text: door... And don't give Joker a second look as he heads
dialog: inside...
scene_heading: 71 INT. MEN'S ROOM, WAYNE HALL - CONTINUOUS 71
text: Joker sweeps his way into the cavernous, black &amp; white tiled
text: bathroom, ornate gold fixtures. It's empty save for Thomas
text: Wayne peeing at the far end of a long line of urinals.
text: Joker takes a deep breath, and walks down the line of urinals
dialog: right up next to Thomas Wayne--
text: He stands there for a beat while Thomas urinates, lobby broom
dialog: and upright dustpan in hand--
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: (glances over; annoyed)
dialog: Can I help you, pal?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What? Yeah. No I, I--
dialog: 72.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: You need to get in here or
dialog: something?
text: Thomas Wayne finishes and zips his fly back up. Joker is not
dialog: sure what to say to him, just says--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Dad. It's me.
dialog: Beat.
text: But Thomas Wayne doesn't hear him, he was flushing the
text: urinal. He walks toward the sink.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: Excuse me?
text: Joker follows after him.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: My name is Arthur. I'm Penny's son.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I know you didn't know about me,
dialog: and I don't want anything from you.
dialog: Well... maybe a hug.
text: And Joker smiles, it's all very emotional for him. Thomas
text: looks over at him like he's fucking crazy.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: Jesus? You're the guy who came by
dialog: my house yesterday.
text: Joker nods, relieved he finally broke through.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yes. But they wouldn't let me in,
dialog: wouldn't let me see you. So I came
dialog: here. I have so many questions.
text: Thomas Wayne just laughs to himself and turns on the gold
text: faucets at one of the sinks.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: Look pal, I'm not your father.
dialog: What's wrong with you?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How do you know?
text: Thomas Wayne just keeps washing his hands, doesn't even look
text: over at Joker.
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: Cause you were adopted. And I never
dialog: fucked your mother. What do you
dialog: want from me, money?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. What? I wasn't adopted.
text: Thomas starts drying his hands.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: She never told you? Your mother
dialog: adopted you before she even started
dialog: working for us. She was arrested
dialog: when you were four years old and
dialog: committed to Arkham State Hospital.
dialog: She's batshit crazy.
text: Joker starts to smile, feels a laugh coming on.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. No, I don't believe that.
text: Thomas finishes drying his hands. Turns to Joker, his tone
dialog: way more serious now.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: I don't really give a shit what you
dialog: believe.
dialog: (steps in closer)
dialog: But if you ever come to my house
dialog: again, if you ever talk to my son
dialog: again, if I ever even hear about
dialog: you again, I'll--
text: AND JOKER CRACKS UP LAUGHING, interrupting his threat.
text: Laughing right in his face--
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: Are you laughing at me?
text: Joker's laughing so hard he can't answer.
text: THOMAS SHOVES JOKER HARD UP AGAINST THE TILED WALL, gripping
text: his neck with one hand. Joker just cracks up louder, he drops
dialog: the dustpan and broom--
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: You think this is funny?
text: Thomas Wayne's security guards bang open the door, rushing
text: into the bathroom when they hear the shouting--
dialog: 74.
text: They stop when they see Thomas has Joker jacked up against
dialog: the wall.
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (tries shaking his head
dialog: no; still laughing and
dialog: choking)
dialog: No, no I have a con--
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE
dialog: (interrupting; raising his
dialog: voice)
dialog: Is this a fucking joke to you?
text: AND THOMAS WAYNE PUNCHES JOKER STRAIGHT IN THE FACE with his
text: free hand, blood spraying from his nose--
scene_heading: 72 EXT. WAYNE HALL, FRONT ENTRANCE - PLAZA - NIGHT 72
text: The two security guards roughly throw Joker out of the hall,
text: right in front of the drenched crowd of screaming protesters,
text: TV cameras and photographers now on hand, bulbs flashing--
text: Joker knowing how to take a fall, plays it up in front of
dialog: this audience for all it's worth, tumbling end-over-end out
text: onto the plaza in the rain--
text: He rolls to his feet with a bit of panache and brushes
text: himself off like it was nothing.
text: The protesters go crazy, cheering and applauding his act--
text: And Joker takes a deep dramatic bow. Wet hair. Bloody nose.
text: He turns and sees the security guards coming back out--
text: Joker takes off running through the plaza in the downpour,
text: running out of the Center for Performing Arts. Turns down a
dialog: side street almost slipping--
text: And keeps running even though nobody's chasing after him.
text: We HEAR the familiar beats of THE SUGARHILL GANG'S "Apache"
text: as Joker just keeps running and running.
scene_heading: 73 INT. APARTMENT BUILDING, HALLWAY - NIGHT 73
text: Joker knocking on Sophie's apartment door, "Apache" blaring
text: inside. He's soaking wet, clothes clinging to his body.
text: There's no answer.
dialog: 75.
text: He knocks again. Hard to hear anything over the loud music.
text: Now he tries the door. It's unlocked.
scene_heading: 74 INT. SOPHIE'S APARTMENT, FRONT HALL - CONTINUOUS 74
text: Joker walks into Sophie's apartment, "Apache" thumping,
text: lights dim.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Sophie?
text: WALKS INTO THE DARK LIVING ROOM, catches a glimpse of Sophie,
text: naked riding on top of SOME GUY on the couch--
text: The guy sees Joker standing in the shadows and jumps. Sophie
text: turns and sees Joker as well. She screams--
scene_heading: 75 INT. HALLWAY, APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT 75
text: Joker rushing for his mother's apartment.
text: Behind him, the guy comes out half naked into the hallway,
text: zipping up his pants, screaming at Joker--
text: Joker doesn't look back, doesn't hear the guy yelling at him--
text: Quickly opens the door to his mother's apartment and hurries
dialog: inside.
scene_heading: 76 EXT. ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - MORNING 76
text: A GRAY, BEHEMOTH STATE HOSPITAL looming over the city block.
text: Metal screens cover steel-framed windows. Joker crosses the
text: street toward the building, eyes weary, he hasn't slept in
dialog: days.
text: HE SEES TWO GOTHAM CITY COPS AND A PARAMEDIC rolling a gurney
text: into the entrance... a naked, sunburned man screaming his
text: head off is handcuffed to the stretcher underneath a white
text: sheet. Joker follows them inside.
scene_heading: 77 INT. ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE - MORNING
dialog: 77
text: Joker sits waiting in a cramped office, looking out a
text: plexiglass window that overlooks the crowded hallway--
dialog: 76.
text: A constant din of people moving about, talking and shouting.
text: Patients handcuffed to the armrests of their wheelchairs,
text: lying on stretchers, heads covered with pillowcase turbans or
text: forearms to block out the harsh fluorescent lights.
text: His gaze is interrupted by a CLERK (40's), ID clipped to his
text: shirt, who's lugging an old heavy file storage box.
text: He drops the box down on his messy desk with a thud.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Sorry for the wait. All our records
dialog: that are 10 years or older are
dialog: stored in the basement. You're
dialog: talking over 30 years ago,-- I had
dialog: to do some serious digging.
text: Joker nods thanks.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Like I said, if it's in here, I'm
dialog: still gonna need a release from
dialog: her.
text: The clerk opens the file box. Starts digging though it. Joker
text: stares out the plexiglass window that faces the hallway--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Can I ask you a question? How does
dialog: someone wind up in here? Have all
dialog: these people committed crimes?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (going through the files)
dialog: Some have. Some are just crazy and
dialog: pose a danger to themselves or
dialog: others. Some just got nowhere else
dialog: to go.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods; looks down)
dialog: Yeah, I know how that is. Sometimes
dialog: I don't know what to do, y'know, I
dialog: don't think I can take any more of
dialog: this.
text: The clerk is half listening as he scans the paper work.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Yeah, I can't take much more of
dialog: this shit either.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 77.
speaker_heading: CLERK (CONT'D)
dialog: Now they talking about more
dialog: layoffs, man, we're understaffed as
dialog: it is. I don't know what I'm gonna
dialog: do.
text: Joker looks up at the guy, thinking he's made a connection.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Last time I ended up taking it out
dialog: on some,-- people. Bad shit. I
dialog: thought it would bother me but, it
dialog: really hasn't.
text: For the first time, the clerk looks at him--
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's just so hard to try and be
dialog: happy all the time, y'know, when
dialog: everything's going to shit all
dialog: around you.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (taken aback; beat)
dialog: Listen, I'm just an administrative
dialog: assistant, like a clerk. I file
dialog: paperwork, fill out forms. I don't
dialog: really know what to tell you, but
dialog: maybe you should see someone-- they
dialog: have programs, like city services.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (backtracking)
dialog: Yeah. They cut those. Anyway, I was
dialog: just talking to talk.
text: The clerk just nods. Finally finds what he was looking for.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: Here it is,-- Fleck. Penny Fleck.
text: He pulls out an old file, bulging with yellowing records.
text: Moves the box to the floor and sits down at his desk.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (saying it out loud for
dialog: himself to hear)
dialog: So she was a patient here.
text: The guy opens the file. Yellowing pages of her records--
dialog: 78.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (nods, skim-reading)
text: Uh-huh. Diagnosed by Dr. Benjamin
dialog: Stoner... The patient suffers from
dialog: delusional psychosis and
dialog: narcissistic personality
dialog: disorder... Found guilty of
dialog: endangering the welfare of a child--
text: The clerk stops reading out loud, eyes going wide as he skims
text: further ahead. Joker just looks at the guy, waiting to see
dialog: what he's gonna say.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: You said she's your mother?
text: Joker just nods.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: (closes the file)
dialog: I'm sorry, I can't. Like I said, I
dialog: can't release this without the
dialog: proper forms. I could get in
dialog: trouble.
dialog: (closes the file; beat)
dialog: Besides, it's pretty bad.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, he shakes his head and smiles to himself.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I can handle bad. I've been on a
dialog: pretty bad run myself.
text: The clerk puts the file down on his desk--
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: I can't help you. If you want these
dialog: records you have to get your mom to
dialog: sign a patient disclosure form. I
dialog: can have someone mail you one.
text: Joker just sits there, thinking it all over for a moment.
text: Then snatches the file off the clerk's desk--
text: The clerk grabs it as well.
text: They play tug-of-war with the file, it's awkward and goes on
text: way too long. Finally, Joker shoves the guy hard and pulls
dialog: the file away--
dialog: 79.
text: He takes off running out of the office with it. The clerk
text: watches for a beat, but does nothing.
scene_heading: 78 INT. HALLWAY, ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - MORNING 78
text: Joker running down the hallway, files in his hands. Frantic.
text: Unaware he is not being chased.
text: Turns a corner and runs down another long hallway.
text: Gets to a stairwell door and runs in.
scene_heading: 79 INT. STAIRWELL, ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS 79
text: Bounding down the steps. He stops at a landing below. Looks
text: up, sees no one is chasing after him--
text: ANGLE ON JOKER, catching his breath. He opens the file,
text: flipping through the records, finds the page the clerk was
text: reading. As he reads it over for himself, he HEARS his mother
dialog: being interviewed for her psychiatric assessment, over 30
dialog: years ago.
speaker_heading: MOM (VO)
dialog: He's not adopted-- he's Thomas
dialog: Wayne's son. I work for him, I told
dialog: you, I clean his house. He's always
dialog: smiling at me.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 80 INT. EMERGENCY INTERVIEW ROOM, ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - DAY 80
speaker_heading: (FLASHBACK)
text: Penny Fleck (late 20's) is sitting across the table from DR.
text: BENJAMIN STONER (50's), in a dreary small interview room,
text: windows covered with security screens. Penny takes a drag off
text: a cigarette, her face is beaten to shit, nose battered, lip
text: busted up.
text: Dr. Stoner is going over Penny's thick file, the same file
text: Joker's holding in his hands.
speaker_heading: DR. STONER
dialog: We went over this, Penny. You
dialog: adopted him. We have all the
dialog: paperwork right here.
text: Penny doesn't say anything, just smiles like she's in on a
text: big secret. And exhales smoke.
dialog: 80.
text: Dr. Stoner keeps going through the file, pulls out black &amp;
text: white forensic photographs of three-year-old Joker's body--
speaker_heading: DR. STONER
dialog: You also stood by as one of your
dialog: boyfriends repeatedly abused your
dialog: adopted son. And battered you.
text: Penny looks at Dr. Stoner like he's crazy.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: He didn't do anything to me. Or to
dialog: my boy. Can I go now, I don't like
dialog: hospitals.
text: Dr. Stoner lays out the photographs in front of Penny--
text: Penny keeps smoking her cigarette, glances down at the
text: photos, we catch glimpses of various bruises on parts of
text: Joker's body... A filthy crib... A rope tied to the
dialog: radiator...
speaker_heading: CUT BACK TO:
text: Joker looking over the same black &amp; white photographs, still
dialog: HEARS his mother--
speaker_heading: MOM (V0)
dialog: I never heard him crying. Not once.
dialog: He's always been such a happy
dialog: little boy.
speaker_heading: DR. STONER (VO)
dialog: Penny, your son was found tied to a
dialog: radiator in your filthy apartment,
text: malnourished, with multiple bruises
text: across his body and severe trauma
text: to his head.
text: Joker looks up from the file when he hears/reads this, turns
text: and looks at Penny's reaction-- HE'S NOW IN THE INTERVIEW
text: ROOM WITH THEM, living what he's reading on the page.
text: He sees his mother lean forward in her chair, glaring at Dr.
dialog: Stoner--
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: That's not true. My apartment
dialog: wasn't filthy. I keep a clean
dialog: house.
text: Joker just stares at his mother.
text: Dr. Stoner looks at Penny, not sure how to respond to that.
dialog: 81.
speaker_heading: DR. STONER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: And what do you have to say about
dialog: your son?
text: ANGLE ON PENNY, thinking it over, taking a drag off her
dialog: cigarette.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: I'm just glad I got to know him.
text: Joker just keeps staring at her as she exhales--
text: JOKER BACK IN THE STAIRWELL LOOKS UP FROM THE FILE, looks
text: like maybe there's cigarette smoke drifting in front of his
dialog: face--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 81 EXT. SCHOOL PLAYGROUND, STREET - AFTERNOON 81
text: Joker walking fast toward the playground. Sees Sophie talking
text: with some other moms, as GiGi and a few kids play on the
dialog: monkey bars.
text: Sophie walks toward him, still disturbed about last night--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: What the hell was that? You can't
dialog: just walk into my apartment like
dialog: that.
text: He is taken aback by her anger--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No, wait,-- Sophie, we can get
dialog: through this, that's why I'm here.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: What are you talking about? What do
dialog: you think this is?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know. I mean I've never
dialog: been with a woman "like that," but,
dialog: this feels like a beginning to me.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: Arthur, I was just being nice to
dialog: you. I felt sorry for you. I have a
dialog: boyfriend.
dialog: 82.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You what? What? What kind of woman
dialog: are you? Who does that?
text: Some of the other mothers turn toward them--
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: You need to leave. I'm not having
dialog: this conversation with you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (shouts)
dialog: Why not?
text: GiGi runs up to Sophie's side to see what's going on, to see
dialog: if her mother's okay.
speaker_heading: SOPHIE
dialog: (turns to her daughter)
dialog: Go back with your friends, honey.
text: Mommy's having a grown up talk.
text: Before GiGi leaves Joker looks down at her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. Don't listen to her GiGi, you
dialog: need to hear this. Your mother's a
dialog: bad person. She's a whore, she's
dialog: seeing two men at once. You can't
dialog: trust her,-- She'll break your
dialog: fucking heart.
text: Joker turns to go, behind him GiGi starts to cry. He's close
text: to tears himself.
text: Sophie takes off after him, and reaches out and grabs him--
text: Joker spins quickly around to face her, looks like he might
dialog: even hit her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How come nothing ever comes easy
dialog: for me?
text: And Sophie slaps him hard across the face-- Then turns and
text: walks away.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, he begins to laugh--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 83.
scene_heading: 82 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 82
text: Joker manically pacing around the living room, banging the
text: side of his head with his hand, muttering to himself, almost
text: like he's having a conversation with himself, taking part in
text: some story in his head, in the background the 11:00 News is
text: playing on the television.
text: Footage of a protest in front of Wayne Tower... Protesters in
text: "Joker" clown masks... Hear the NEWS ANCHOR's bombastic voice
dialog: over, "The anger and resentment that's been building up for
text: weeks now, seems close to exploding. Protestors today, many
text: dressed as clowns, took to the streets in front of Wayne
dialog: Tower in one of many planned demonstrations."
text: Joker stops when he hears this, turns to the flickering
dialog: screen--
text: ANGLE ON TELEVISION, protesters in the middle of a massive
text: crowd outside a Wayne Tower.
scene_heading: "CLOWN" PROTESTER #1 (ON TV)
dialog: You'll see what's gonna happen at
dialog: City Hall next Thursday. We're
dialog: gonna--
text: Joker sits down on the couch eyes, leaning forward to make
text: sure he's seeing what he's seeing--
scene_heading: "CLOWN" PROTESTER #2 (ON TV)
dialog: (interrupts; screaming
dialog: into camera)
dialog: [Beep] the rich, [beep] the media,
dialog: [beep] the blacks, [beep] the
dialog: whites, [beep] everybody. They all
dialog: [beeped] us, that's what this is
dialog: [beeping] about!
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, doesn't even blink, it's like he's watching
text: himself on television.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 83 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - MORNING 83
text: Sun peeking through the windows. PHONE RINGING. Joker opening
text: his eyes.
text: His orange cat is sitting on his chest, staring at him.
text: Joker finally got some sleep. He lies there for a beat. Phone
text: still ringing, until the machine picks up the call.
dialog: 84.
speaker_heading: SHOW BOOKER (ON MACHINE)
dialog: This message is for Arthur Fleck.
dialog: My name is Shirley Woods, I work on
dialog: the Murray Franklin show.
text: Joker sits up, the cat jumps off his chest. He can't believe
text: what he's hearing. He gets up off the couch as the woman
text: continues to leave a message on the machine--
speaker_heading: SHOW BOOKER (ON MACHINE)
dialog: I don't know if you're aware, but
dialog: Murray played a clip of your stand-
dialog: up on the show recently and we've
dialog: gotten an amazing--
text: Joker picks up the phone--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone; skeptical)
dialog: Who is this?
speaker_heading: SHOW BOOKER (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Hi, this is Shirley Woods from
dialog: Murray Franklin Live. Is this
dialog: Arthur?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Yes.
text: Joker looks down at the cat purring at his feet, and kicks it
dialog: away.
speaker_heading: SHOW BOOKER (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Hi Arthur. Well, as I was saying--
dialog: we've gotten a lot of calls about
dialog: your clip, amazing responses. And,
dialog: Murray asked if I would reach out
dialog: to see if you would come on as his
dialog: guest. Can we set up a day?
text: PUSH IN ON JOKER'S FACE, as it sinks in.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (into phone)
dialog: Murray wants me to come on the
dialog: show?
speaker_heading: SHOW BOOKER (OVER PHONE)
dialog: Yes. Isn't that great? He'd love to
dialog: talk to you, maybe do some of your
dialog: act. Does that sound good to you?
dialog: 85.
text: As the PUSH IN ON JOKER finishes.
dialog: Hold.
scene_heading: 84 INT. CITY HOSPITAL, HOSPITAL ROOM (SHARED) - MORNING 84
text: JOKER WALKS INTO HIS MOTHER'S SHARED HOSPITAL ROOM, passing
text: an elderly wheezing woman in the bed closest to the door.
text: Sees his mom in her bed by the window.
text: He pulls the blue curtain separating the beds, giving him and
text: his mother some privacy. Sits down on the edge of her bed.
text: She smiles when she sees him. Still fairly incapacitated.
text: He leans down close to her. Speaks softly, but filled with
dialog: rage--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Ma, remember how you used to tell
dialog: me that God gave me this laugh for
dialog: a reason. That I had a purpose. To
dialog: bring laughter and joy into this
dialog: fucked up world,--
text: She looks at him confused.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: HA! It wasn't God, it was you or,
dialog: or one of your boyfriends,-- how
dialog: could you let that happen? What
dialog: kind of woman are you? What kind of
dialog: mother are you?
text: She looks away.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What's my real name?
text: Her whole body is shaking, overwhelmed with emotion.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: C'mon, Ma, I know I was adopted.
dialog: What's my name? Who am I really?
text: She looks back him, struggles to speak--
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: H-h-happ--
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (interrupting, snaps at
dialog: her)
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 86.
speaker_heading: JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Happy?! I'm not happy. I haven't
dialog: been happy for one minute of my
dialog: entire fucking life.
text: He reaches behind her, grabs one of her pillows--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: But you know what's funny? You know
dialog: what really makes me laugh?
text: Leans down closer, face-to-face with her--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I used to think my life was nothing
dialog: but a tragedy, but now, now I
dialog: realize it's all just a fucking
dialog: comedy.
scene_heading: 85 INT. BLUE CURTAIN, HOSPITAL ROOM (SHARED) - CONTINUOUS 85
text: Other side of the blue divider curtain. We see Joker's feet
text: shifting a little.
text: SLOWLY WE PULL OUT, backing out of the room. Leaving behind
text: whatever Joker's doing to his mother on the other side of the
text: curtain. And we HEAR applause...
scene_heading: 86 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 86
text: JOKER'S STUDYING VHS TAPES OF "MURRAY FRANKLIN LIVE!", studio
text: audience applauding Murray... He jots down notes in his worn
text: notebook... Watches the guests come out... how they cross the
text: stage... how they greet Murray... how they sit down... if
dialog: they cross their legs or not... studying how he should act,
dialog: how to be a person like other people.
text: His cat sits on top of the TV watching him the whole time,
text: never taking her eyes off him.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT:
text: Practicing. Joker walks across the living room like he's on
text: the show, smiling, waving to the "audience"... He mimes
text: shaking Murray's hand... Mimes unbuttoning his jacket and
text: sits down. He smiles and pulls out his worn notebook from his
dialog: pocket--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You wanna hear a joke, Murray?
text: He "waits" for Murray to answer. Then Joker nods okay and
dialog: opens his notebook--
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Knock-knock.
text: His cat still watching him, now at his feet. Joker crosses
text: and uncrosses his legs... Looks uncomfortable.
text: He glances down at his cat. It's as if he can hear the cat
text: talking to him.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods; frustrated)
dialog: Yeah, I don't know if I should
dialog: cross or uncross 'em. Both feel
dialog: completely unnatural.
text: Joker gets up off the couch and walks back across the living
text: room. Waves to the "audience"... Mimes shaking Murray's
text: hand... Mimes unbuttoning his coat and sits down... Crosses
text: his legs.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Thanks for having me on, Murray. I
dialog: can't tell you how much this means
dialog: to me, it's been a life long dream.
dialog: I have a joke for you--
text: Joker stands back up.
text: Looks down at the cat again.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You're right. You're right,
dialog: uncrossed is better.
text: Joker sits back down... Doesn't cross his legs this time.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 87 EXT. POTTER'S FIELD CEMETERY - DUSK 87
text: WIDE SHOT, a lone figure in a vast sea of mass graves, grey
dialog: headstones. This is where they bury the poor and the
text: unclaimed dead.
text: Joker stands by his mother's grave. His head bowed, face in
text: his hands, his body convulsing. He's dressed in an ill-
text: fitting faded rust colored suit, almost shiny from all the
text: wear. Behind him in the distance, the TWO DETECTIVES stand by
text: their parked car on the cemetery roadway. Sun dying in the
dialog: sky.
dialog: 88.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER'S FACE BURIED IN HIS HANDS, see he's laughing--
text: impossible to tell if he's laughing because of his condition
dialog: or laughing for real.
scene_heading: 88 EXT. ROADWAY, POTTER'S FIELD CEMETERY - DUSK 88
text: Joker walking away from his mother's grave, goes to the two
text: detectives -- GARRITY and BURKE -- waiting for him by their
text: unmarked car. His face is still red, tears in his eyes from
dialog: laughing.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (wiping his eyes;
dialog: restrained anger)
dialog: You shouldn't be here. It's not
dialog: right.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: We just came to pay our respects.
dialog: Sorry about your mother.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Yeah, it's too bad.
text: Joker just stares at the two detectives.
text: Awkward beat.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Where is everybody?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's always been just me and her.
text: Joker pauses for a moment, then starts to walk away.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: (calls out)
dialog: We saw you on Murray Franklin.
text: Joker turns back to them.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You saw that?
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: Yeah. Heard you were on, so we got
text: a videotape.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: I just couldn't tell if you were
dialog: actually trying to be funny or not.
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah, well I guess you didn't get
dialog: the joke.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: Listen, we need to clear a few
dialog: things up, we spoke to the hospital
dialog: administrator--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: Which hospital?
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: The Children's Hospital.
dialog: (reminding)
dialog: The night you were fired. He said
dialog: it didn't look like a prop gun, it
dialog: was heavy, like a real one. We have
dialog: some more questions for you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I just buried my mother.
text: The detectives share a look. Garrity pulls out a card. Hands
dialog: it to Joker.
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: We can do it tomorrow. But you need
dialog: to come down to the precinct--
dialog: first thing in the morning.
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (looks down, reading the
dialog: card)
dialog: Right. Thanks for coming.
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Of course.
text: Joker looks back up.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: That was a joke.
text: We hear applause followed by the familiar opening riff to
text: ELTON JOHN'S "Bennie &amp; the Jets".
scene_heading: 89 INT. MOM'S APARTMENT, BATHROOM - NEXT AFTERNOON 89
text: JOKER'S LEANING OVER THE BATHROOM SINK, water running. He's
text: wearing rust colored pants and a white "beater" T-shirt.
dialog: 90.
text: A "Joker" clown mask hangs off the dirty mirror by its
text: elastic band. "Bennie &amp; the Jets" blaring from a transistor
text: radio turned all the way up.
text: Joker lifts his head up. He's dyed his hair green like his
text: old "Mr. Jingles" clown wig-- but he's missed spots. Some of
text: his hair is still its original color, sticking out all helter-
text: skelter.
speaker_heading: JUMP CUT:
text: Now he's smearing white grease-paint all over his face.
text: He's dancing along to the music, gyrating and thrusting his
text: hips to the beat, as he glances at the mask hanging from the
text: mirror, trying to copy how it looks... A copy of a copy of
dialog: himself.
text: He barely hears someone banging on the front door over the
dialog: loud music--
text: Doesn't answer. Joker just keeps putting on his make-up,
text: dancing provocatively to the music.
text: More banging on the front door.
text: Joker casually opens the medicine cabinet. Finds some old
text: rusty scissors and turns the radio off--
scene_heading: 90 INT. FRONT DOOR, MOM'S APARTMENT - AFTERNOON 90
text: Joker unlocks the locks, keeping the security chain latched,
text: and cracks open the door,-- Sees Randall. Looks down, and
text: sees Gary next to him. Undoes the chain and opens the door
dialog: for them--
text: Randall and Gary get a look at Joker's face, his dyed green
text: hair still wet, streaking white grease-paint smeared over
dialog: part of his face--
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (re: his look)
dialog: Hey Arthur, how's it going? You get
dialog: a new gig?
text: Joker shakes his head no, steps aside so they can come in,
text: palming the scissors in his hand--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: You must be goin' down to that
dialog: rally at City Hall. Right? I hear
dialog: it's gonna be nuts.
dialog: 91.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Is that today?
text: Randall looks at him and laughs--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Yeah. What's with the clown-face
dialog: then?
text: Joker shuts the door behind them. Locks the chain-lock.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: My mom died.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (nodding)
dialog: Yeah we heard. That's why we're
dialog: here. Figured you might wanna go
dialog: out, get a drink or something?
text: Joker doesn't answer.
text: Awkward beat.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: We don't wanna bother you. Randall
dialog: just thought we should come and pay
dialog: our respects.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Yeah, we're family. We gotta stick
dialog: together.
text: Joker stares at Randall.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: It's not a good time. I'm in the
dialog: middle of something here.
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: Of course. No problem. Another
dialog: time.
text: Gary turns to go. Randall pauses for a moment, has something
dialog: else to say before he leaves--
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Yeah. Another time, then. Oh hey,--
dialog: one other thing--
text: He takes a step closer to Joker--
dialog: 92.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: Listen, the cops have been poking
text: around the shop, they're talking to
dialog: all the clowns about those subway
dialog: murders and--
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (interrupting)
dialog: They didn't talk to me.
speaker_heading: RANDALL
dialog: (snaps at Gary)
dialog: That's because the suspect was a
dialog: regular-sized person. If it was a
dialog: fucking midget you'd be in jail
dialog: right now.
dialog: (turns back to Joker)
dialog: Anyway, Hoyt said they were looking
dialog: for me, and, and I just wanna see
dialog: what you said. You know, make sure
dialog: our stories line up, bein' that
dialog: you're my boy and--
text: AND JOKER STABS THE SCISSORS AS DEEP AS HE CAN into Randall's
text: neck. Blood spurts. Randall screams. Gary stumbles back in
dialog: shock--
speaker_heading: GARY
dialog: (screaming)
dialog: What the fuck what the fuck WHAT
speaker_heading: THE FUCK--
text: Joker pulls them out and jams them into Randall's eye before
text: he can react. The sound is sickening. Gary's screaming in the
dialog: background--
text: Randall blindly fights back, screaming in pain, flailing his
text: arms, his own blood blinding him--
text: Joker grabs Randall by the head -- all of his pent up rage
text: and frustration pouring out of him -- AND SLAMS HIS HEAD
text: AGAINST THE WALL.
scene_heading: AGAIN. And AGAIN. And AGAIN.
text: Joker lets go of Randall's head, and Randall drops to the
text: ground. Joker leans back against the wall, out of breath,
text: kind of slides down the wall to the floor--
text: Sees Gary huddled in the corner, trembling with fear--
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (catching his breath)
dialog: I'm gonna be on TV tonight. Can you
dialog: believe it?
text: Gary doesn't answer. Doesn't move--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: It's okay, Gary. You can go.
text: Gary backs away toward the door. Joker sits there for a
text: moment, breathing heavy, wipes Randall's blood off his face--
speaker_heading: GARY (OS)
dialog: Hey, Art?
text: Joker turns, sees Gary at the front door. He points up high
text: to the chain-lock. He can't reach it.
text: Joker just shakes his head to himself and gets up to unlock
dialog: the door.
text: He walks past Gary who's still trembling almost too afraid to
text: look up at him. Joker leans over him and undoes the chain,
text: opens the door. Gary bolts, running down the hallway as fast
dialog: as he can--
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 91 INT. MOM'S BEDROOM, APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 91
dialog: (Over the following, we don't see Joker's face. We don't
text: reveal his finished "look" just yet.)
text: CLOSE PICKING UP HIS NOTEBOOK, fanning through the pages--
text: Pausing at the BLACK &amp; WHITE RIPPED PHOTO OF BRUCE WAYNE for
text: a moment. Continues, stopping at the same entry from the
dialog: opening scene--
dialog: CLOSE ON WORDS, "I just hope my death make more sense than my
dialog: life."
scene_heading: 92 INT. LIVING ROOM, MOM'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 92
text: CLOSE ON TAKING RANDALL'S WALLET OUT OF HIS BLOOD SOAKED
text: PANTS, pocketing all the cash.
text: CLOSE ON BUTT OF A GUN STICKING OUT OF RANDALL'S WAISTBAND,
text: glimpse Joker's hand reaching for it--
dialog: 94.
scene_heading: 93 INT. KITCHEN, MOM'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 93
text: JOKER'S P.O.V. FINISHING WRITING A NOTE, "On Murray Franklin
dialog: Tonight -- Please Watch!"
text: CLOSE ON STUFFING THE NOTE AND ALL OF RANDALL'S MONEY into an
dialog: envelope--
text: TURNING ENVELOPE OVER, WRITING "SOPHIE" on the front.
scene_heading: 94 INT. LIVING ROOM WINDOW, MOM'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON 94
text: CLOSE ON THE ORANGE CAT AT THE WINDOW, and maybe if we're
text: looking close enough we notice something strange... the cat
dialog: has no reflection.
text: ANGLE OVER JOKER'S SHOULDER OPENING THE WINDOW, shooing the
text: cat out onto the fire escape, out into the dying day--
speaker_heading: JOKER (OS)
dialog: Go on. Go. You're free.
text: CLOSE ON THE CAT LOOKING BACK AT JOKER FOR A LONG MOMENT,
text: before scampering off out into the world, leaving him behind
dialog: for good.
text: As he closes the window we almost catch Joker's reflection in
dialog: the glass--
scene_heading: 95 INT. HALLWAY, APARTMENT BUILDING - LATE AFTERNOON 95
text: FOLLOWING BEHIND JOKER, walking down the hallway as if in
text: slow motion, heading for Sophie's apartment. His dyed green
text: hair now slicked back.
text: He's wearing the ill-fitting rust colored suit he wore to his
dialog: mother's funeral.
text: STILL FROM BEHIND, he lays the envelope in front of Sophie's
text: door, then pulls something else out of his pocket -- his body
text: obscuring what it is -- puts it down by her door and leaves.
text: As he walks away down the hallway, we see what else Joker
dialog: left behind--
text: HIS WAND OF FLOWERS, at Sophie's door.
dialog: Hold.
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: 96 INT. ELEVATOR, HALLWAY - LATE AFTERNOON 96
text: FROM BEHIND JOKER STEPPING ONTO THE ELEVATOR, TURNING TO FACE
text: US AS THE DOOR STARTS TO CLOSE, FINALLY REVEALING HIS LOOK--
text: Green hair slicked back like one of the Wall Street assholes
text: he killed... White grease paint smeared over his face... red
text: nose painted on... dark blue peaks over and under his eyes...
text: his mother's red lipstick crudely outlining his broken
text: smile... Under the harsh flickering fluorescent lights, he
text: looks like an insane version of his mask.
text: The door closes on his new face. Ding.
scene_heading: 97 EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - LATE AFTERNOON 97
text: Joker steps out of his building into the setting sun, just as
text: Garrity and Burke are getting out of their unmarked Ford LTD
dialog: Crown Vic--
scene_heading: DET. GARRITY
dialog: Hey Arthur, where you going?
scene_heading: DET. BURKE
dialog: Yeah, thought you were coming down
dialog: to the station this morning.
dialog: And Joker takes off running--
text: Garrity gives chase on foot as Burke hurries back into the
dialog: car--
scene_heading: 98 EXT. 174TH STREET, TWO LANES - CONTINUOUS 98
text: Joker darts out from his block into the avenue, sprints
text: across the busy, two-lane street without looking--
text: Running right in front of an oncoming YELLOW CAB on the far
dialog: side of the street--
speaker_heading: BAM!
text: The cab hits him and Joker goes crashing into the windshield.
text: Bounces up and over the car. Landing hard on the pavement--
text: The car directly behind the cab skids to a stop just before
text: running over Joker's face. Swerving into the other lane and
text: CRASHING INTO an oncoming truck.
text: Cars on both sides of the street skidding trying to stop--
text: Crashing. It's chaos.
dialog: 96.
text: Joker pops back up from getting hit. He's in pain. But not
dialog: dead.
text: Garrity has drawn his service revolver as he makes his way
text: through the pile up. And Burke, now blocked because of the
text: crash has jumped out of his car--
text: Joker takes off running, limping down the street toward an
dialog: entrance for the elevated train--
scene_heading: 99 EXT. ELEVATED TRAIN STATION, STEPS - CONTINUOUS 99
text: Joker hustling up the stairs, dripping sweat, his white
text: grease-paint running down his face. He gets to the top of the
text: stairs, looks back and catches a glimpse of Garrity and Burke
dialog: at the bottom--
scene_heading: 100 EXT. PLATFORM, ELEVATED TRAIN STATION - CONTINUOUS 100
text: Joker makes his way down the crowded platform, the passengers
text: starting to file on a waiting Lexington Ave/Pelham Express
text: Train heading downtown. The train's packed with protesters
text: heading to the rally at City Hall. Many carrying signs...
text: most of them in "Joker" masks... a few painted up to look
text: like the "Joker" mask. Joker fits in with all of them.
text: He looks through the crowd of clowns and sees the two cops
text: getting to the top of the stairs, looking up and down the
text: platform for him. Pulling out their badges on chains from
text: around their necks. Identifying themselves as cops.
text: Joker's willing the doors to close. But they don't.
text: The two detectives run onto the train just as the doors are
dialog: finally closing--
scene_heading: 101 INT. LEXINGTON AVE/PELHAM EXPRESS (MOVING) - CONTINUOUS 101
text: Joker moves through the loud train pushing through the rowdy
text: protesters-- Into the next car, all of them packed.
text: AS THE TRAIN GOES UNDERGROUND, the lights flicker on and off--
text: car GOING BLACK FOR A FEW SECONDS as the train turns and dips
text: and speeds down the tracks.
text: Joker glances back at Burke and Garrity pulling out their
dialog: badges on chains around their necks. Smith &amp; Wesson service
text: revolvers by their sides. Shouting at the crowd, identifying
dialog: themselves as cops.
dialog: 97.
text: Joker hears some on the train shouting back in anger at the
text: police, keeps moving... past clown-faced protestors carrying
text: signs, "RESIST"... "AM I A CLOWN?"... "SAVE A CITY, KILL A
dialog: YUPPIE"...
text: The two cops push through the car, scanning all the "clown"
text: faces... So many look like Joker. They just shove protesters
text: out of the way, shouting at them all the while. A few more
text: voices rising up in protest--
text: Joker feels Burke and Garrity behind him getting closer. In
text: the flickering light sees a DRUNK GUY (20's) wearing a
text: 'Joker' mask and pulls it right off his face--
text: The drunk guy turns ready to fight.
text: He throws a punch at Joker, and Joker steps out of the way--
text: The guy pummels someone else--
text: A FIGHT BREAKS OUT, spilling down the car.
text: Joker slips the clown mask over his clown face--
text: AND JUST STANDS THERE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CHAOS, at home
text: with the chaos all around him--
text: Garrity and Burke spot Joker's rust colored suit in the
text: middle of the unruly mob--
text: Burke pulls his gun--
speaker_heading: BURKE
dialog: (shouting)
text: EVERYBODY DOWN, GOTHAM PD!
text: The crowd doesn't drop to the ground. They just keep fighting
dialog: with each other--
text: Burke sees Joker just standing there. Keeps yelling for the
dialog: crowd to get down, get down, but they don't listen to him--
text: He starts shoving protestors down, out of the way-- and
text: AND THEN THE MOB TURNS ON HIM AND GARRITY, starts closing in
dialog: around them--
text: Garrity and Burke are pointing their guns at the crowd,
text: yelling panicked for them to back off, back off, and one
text: idiot reaches for Garrity's gun--
dialog: Bang.
dialog: 98.
text: Burke fires into the crowd, as the train pulls into the
dialog: station--
text: A protestor falls dead. The other clowns on the train go
text: crazy, starting to riot. Glimpse Joker walking away calmly
text: out of the chaos. Taking off the mask and dropping it at his
text: side as he steps off the train, disappearing onto the crowded
dialog: platform.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 102 EXT. WGCTV STUDIOS, FRANKLIN THEATER - MIDTOWN - EVENING 102
text: An excited line of ticket holders waiting to get in to "Live
text: with Murray Franklin!" The poster marquee box near the door
text: reads: "TONIGHT'S GUESTS. Lance Reynolds. Dr. Sally Friedman.
dialog: And Special Guest."
text: They swing open the doors and start to let the audience
dialog: inside...
scene_heading: 103 EXT. BACKSTAGE DOOR, FRANKLIN THEATER - SIDE STREET - EVENING
dialog: 103
text: Random fans and autograph hounds hanging out by the backstage
text: door, waiting for the night's guests to arrive...
scene_heading: 104 INT. STUDIO 4B, STAGE - FRANKLIN THEATER - EVENING 104
text: Studio audience filing into the studio, being seated in the
text: wide bleachers along one wall. Three TV monitors hang from
text: the ceiling, facing the audience. Three studio cameras on the
text: floor, black cables strewn everywhere.
text: The set for "LIVE WITH MURRAY FRANKLIN!" is dark... but we
text: can still make out his desk... guest chairs... Don Ellis and
text: his Jazz Orchestra's band stand... big blue curtain.
scene_heading: 105 INT. HALLWAY, FRANKLIN THEATER - EVENING 105
text: The host of the show, MURRAY FRANKLIN (60's), usually quick
text: with a bemused grin but right now in a sour mood, walks fast
text: down the hall toward the drab dressing rooms with his old-
text: school producer, GENE UFLAND (60's), who's holding the show's
text: rundown rolled up in his hand.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: --You gotta see this nut for
dialog: yourself, Murray. I don't think we
text: can put him on. With the rioting
dialog: out there.
dialog: 99.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (annoyed)
dialog: Jesus, Gene, I don't have time for
dialog: this. Cindy's been breaking my
dialog: balls all day.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: She's still mad at you about that
dialog: thing?
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Three marriages, you'd think I'da
dialog: fuckin' learned something.
dialog: (then)
dialog: What do I gotta see? I already know
dialog: he's a nut. That's why we're
dialog: putting him on, it's a goof.
text: A young BLONDE INTERN walks by in the opposite direction. She
text: nervously smiles to them and keeps walking. Both men turn and
text: check out her ass. Murray winks at Gene.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
text: (just shakes his head, and
dialog: smiles)
dialog: I'm telling you, you gotta see him,
dialog: Murray. I think it's too risky, the
dialog: show's too big. It's worth too much
dialog: to blow it on this,-- this freak.
scene_heading: 106 INT. DRESSING ROOM, FRANKLIN THEATER - CONTINUOUS 106
text: Joker's sitting on a small couch in the cramped dressing
text: room, watching the local news on a TV that's mounted up on
text: the wall, live shots from the subway station where Burke shot
text: the protestor, footage of the City Hall rally, clashes with
dialog: police.
dialog: He's cleaned himself up as best he could... white grease-
text: paint smeared more evenly over his face, green dyed hair
text: slicked back in place. Red lips redone.
text: Murray and his producer Gene open the dressing room door
dialog: without knocking--
text: Joker gets up off the couch and goes to shake Murray's hand.
text: Murray pauses when he sees Joker's face.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (shakes Murray's hand;
dialog: effusive)
dialog: Murray, I can't believe this is
dialog: real, that I'm really here.
dialog: 100.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: It's Mr. Franklin kid, show some
dialog: respect.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Oh shut up, Gene.
dialog: (to Joker)
dialog: Murray is fine. I prefer it in
dialog: fact. Thanks for coming on the
dialog: show.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Are you kidding? Thank you for the
dialog: opportunity. I've been watching you
dialog: forever. My mother never missed a
dialog: show.
text: Murray nods not listening, he's heard this before.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: So what's with the face? Are you
dialog: part of the protests?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No, I don't believe in any of that.
dialog: I don't believe in anything. I just
dialog: thought it would be good for my
dialog: act.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: (upset)
dialog: Your act? Didn't you hear that a
dialog: kid got killed on the subway and
text: two cops who were almost beat to
dialog: death? You didn't hear about the
text: dozens of protestors and police
dialog: injured in the riots?
text: Joker looks like he's about to bust out laughing. All of that
text: news is playing out on the TV above their heads. He takes a
text: deep breath. Swallows the laugh.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. I hadn't heard.
text: Gene and Murray share a look.
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: --the audience is gonna go crazy if
dialog: you put him on. It was okay maybe
dialog: for a bit, but not a whole segment.
dialog: 101.
text: Murray thinks about it for a beat.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: I like it. It's timely. It's edgy.
dialog: It's, it's dangerous. The best
dialog: comedy is all those things put
dialog: together.
dialog: (done)
dialog: We're gonna go with it.
text: Gene rubs his temples, he doesn't like this, but Murray is
dialog: the boss.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Thank you Murray.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
text: (flashes his bemused
dialog: smile; condescending)
dialog: Couple rules though,-- No cussing,
dialog: no off-color material, we do a
dialog: clean show, okay? You'll be on
dialog: after Dr. Sally. Someone will come
dialog: and get you. Good?
text: Joker nods good. Smiles back at Murray.
text: Murray and Gene turn to go, exchanging smirks with each other
text: as they walk out, making light of Joker who we see behind
text: them still standing there.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Hey Murray,-- one small thing? When
dialog: you bring me out, can you introduce
dialog: me as "The Joker"?
text: Murray and Gene look back at him
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: What? You don't want to use your
dialog: real name?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Honestly, I don't even know what my
dialog: real name is.
text: Joker smiles, the guys can't tell if he's kidding or not.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Besides, that's what you called me
text: on the show, Murray. A joker.
dialog: Remember?
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (to Gene; trying not to
dialog: crack up)
dialog: Did I?
speaker_heading: GENE UFLAND
dialog: I have no idea.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (turns back to Joker)
dialog: Well, if you say so, kid. Joker it
dialog: is.
text: Murray starts to laugh at Joker as he closes the dressing
text: room door, shutting it right in his face.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 107 INT. BACKSTAGE, BEHIND CURTAIN - STUDIO 4B - NIGHT 107
text: JOKER'S BACKSTAGE AT THE EDGE OF THE BLUE CURTAIN, trying to
text: watch the show through a slim gap. Behind him there's a
text: monitor on a cart playing the live feed.
text: He moves the curtain aside to get a better look-- Glimpses
text: Murray laughing, finishing up talking to noted sex therapist
scene_heading: DR. SALLY FRIEDMAN (60's).
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (to Dr. Sally)
dialog: You gotta see our next guest for
dialog: yourself. Will you stick around?
dialog: Maybe you can help, I'm pretty sure
dialog: he could use a doctor.
text: The audience laughs.
scene_heading: DR. SALLY FRIEDMAN
dialog: Oh. Does he have sexual problems?
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: He looks like he's got a lot of
dialog: problems.
text: Another big laugh.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (turns, looks into camera)
dialog: It's been a crazy few days here in
dialog: Gotham, and, I think maybe things
dialog: are about to get crazy around here
dialog: too. Don't go anywhere folks. We'll
dialog: be right back.
dialog: 103.
text: APPLAUSE SIGN LIGHTS UP. Everyone claps. Joker keeps watching
text: Murray through the slim gap at the end of the curtain. Hears
text: the floor director shout, "And we're out. Back in three."
text: Joker adjusts the waist of his pants under his jacket. Takes
text: a deep breath.
scene_heading: 108 INT. DIRECTOR'S BOOTH, STUDIO 4B - NIGHT 108
text: Perched one story above the studio. There's a long console
text: where the DIRECTOR sits in front of a gooseneck microphone,
text: looking over a double-bank of monitors.
text: Sitting next to him are the ASSOCIATE PRODUCER who times the
text: show, and the TECHNICAL DIRECTOR who operates the board. The
text: monitor showing the live feed is playing a commercial.
speaker_heading: ASSOCIATE PRODUCER
text: Back in 30 seconds.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Okay, cue the clip. We'll come to
text: it straight out of break.
speaker_heading: ASSOCIATE PRODUCER
dialog: Five... Four... Three...
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
text: Roll clip. Put up the show graphic.
text: ON THE SHOW MONITOR, video of Joker's original stand-up
text: performance comes up with the show's graphic in the lower
text: right of the screen.
scene_heading: 109 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 109
text: ON THE SET, Murray watches the clip on the monitor above his
text: desk, can't help but laugh. Sees the FLOOR DIRECTOR counting
text: him down silently with her fingers... Three... Two... points
dialog: to Camera One.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (looking into camera)
dialog: O-kay, you may have seen that clip
dialog: of our next guest when we first
dialog: played it two weeks ago. Now before
dialog: he comes out, I just want to say
dialog: that we're all heartbroken here and
dialog: sensitive to what's going on in the
dialog: city tonight. But, this is how he
dialog: wanted to come on the show. So let
dialog: me introduce-- The Joker.
dialog: 104.
text: BEHIND THE BLUE CURTAIN, Joker gathers himself, ready for his
text: moment. Doesn't hear his introduction or see a STAGEHAND pull
dialog: open the curtain for him to go out--
text: ON SET, THE CURTAIN'S OPEN, Don Ellis and his Jazz Orchestra
text: are playing Joker on. He doesn't come out. Murray looks over
text: to the empty space in the curtain.
text: The audience laughs.
text: BEHIND THE CURTAIN, Joker sees the stagehand motioning for
text: him to go out on stage. Joker starts out, pausing when he
text: takes a step into the bright lights. The stagehand doesn't
text: see him stop, and drops the curtain back on Joker before the
dialog: audience can really see his face--
text: Tangling Joker up in the curtain.
text: The audience keeps laughing thinking it's part of his act.
text: The band keeps playing him on. Joker untangles himself from
text: the curtain and the audience gets a good look at him.
text: Some continue laughing. A few boo. Most don't know what to
dialog: make of him.
text: Joker walks across the stage, forgetting to wave like he
text: practiced. He trips over the riser surrounding the set when
text: he goes to shake Murray's hand. Almost falls on him.
text: Murray tries not to crack up. The audience laughs. Thinks
dialog: it's part of Joker's act.
text: Joker reaches out to hug Dr. Sally as she goes in for a
text: handshake. Another awkward moment. More laughs.
text: Joker finally sits down next to Murray. Crosses and uncrosses
text: his legs. Can't get comfortable.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: So, ahhh, thanks for coming on the
dialog: show. But I gotta tell ya, with
dialog: what happened at City Hall today,
dialog: I'm sure many of our viewers here
dialog: in the studio, and at home, might
dialog: find this look of yours in poor
dialog: taste.
text: Joker's not listening to Murray. He's mesmerized by all the
text: lights shining on him... all the eyes on him... he doesn't
dialog: answer Murray.
text: Nervous laughter from the audience.
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (tries again)
dialog: Can you tell us why you're dressed
dialog: like this?
text: AND JOKER STARTS TO LAUGH. Not embarrassed of it anymore. He
text: goes with it. Giving in to it, enjoying the laughter.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (can't help but smile at
dialog: Joker's laughing)
dialog: Okay. But I'm not sure how any of
dialog: this is funny. A lot of those
dialog: protesters are going with this
text: look. City seems to be full of
dialog: clowns these days.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (just nods, still
dialog: laughing)
dialog: Yeah. Isn't it great?
text: Joker just keeps cracking up. Audience still isn't sure what
text: to make of him. There's some awkward laughter.
scene_heading: 110 INT. DIRECTOR'S BOOTH, STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 110
text: Nobody's laughing in the booth.
speaker_heading: TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
dialog: (looks to the director)
dialog: This guy's got nothing.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (hits the producer's talk
dialog: button; into the mic)
dialog: Gene, what the hell? You wanna kill
dialog: this?
scene_heading: 111 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - CONTINUOUS 111
text: Murray glances over at his producer Gene Ufland, who's
text: sitting off-camera on a director's chair by a monitor. Gene
text: shrugs at him.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (smiles; trying to save
dialog: the interview)
dialog: So when we talked earlier, you
dialog: mentioned that you aren't
dialog: political. That this look isn't a
dialog: political statement.
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (between laughs)
dialog: That's right. I'm not political,
dialog: Murray. I'm, I'm, I'm just trying
dialog: to make people laugh.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (beat; smiles)
dialog: How's that goin' for ya? Have you
dialog: been working on any new material?
dialog: Do you want to tell us a joke?
text: The audience claps, egging Joker on to tell a joke.
text: Joker looks over at Murray -- his laughing fit finally
text: subsiding -- and reaches into his jacket pocket and--
text: Pulls out his worn notebook, catching his breath. Looks
text: through it to find a new joke.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: You brought a joke book?
text: The audience laughs. Joker smiles, opens the page to Bruce
text: Wayne's photo, pauses for a moment then turns the page. Finds
dialog: a joke--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Okay. Here's one. Knock knock.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Oh god, a knock-knock joke? And you
dialog: need to read it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods, reads it again)
dialog: I want to get it right. Knock
dialog: knock.
text: Murray makes a face like, "Okay, I'll go along with this."
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Who's there?
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: (looks up from his
dialog: notebook)
dialog: It's the police, ma'am. Your son
text: has been hit by a drunk driver.
text: He's dead.
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 107.
scene_heading: 112 INT. DIRECTOR'S BOOTH, STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 112
text: The associate producer tries not to laugh, but she can't help
text: it. The director looks over at her like she's lost her mind.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: Okay, ready Camera Two. Take Two.
dialog: Ready Three. Three.
text: ON THE MONITORS, some of the audience cracks up. Joker smiles
text: at the response. Murray Franklin shakes his head, smirking at
dialog: the joke despite himself.
scene_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON MONITORS)
dialog: So, Arthur, you told me backstage
dialog: that your--
text: Joker leans over interrupting Murray, whispers something to
dialog: him.
scene_heading: 113 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 113
text: Murray nods as Joker whispers.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (bemused smile;
dialog: patronizing)
dialog: Right. Sorry. I mean Joker-- you
dialog: told me backstage that your
dialog: mother's a big fan of the show,
dialog: that she never misses it.
text: Joker puts the notebook back in his pocket. Crosses his legs,
text: starting to get a bit more comfortable.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: That's right, Murray. But she's
dialog: dead now.
text: The audience laughs.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (goes along with the
dialog: "joke")
dialog: Hold on. Your mother's dead?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah. She is.
text: Murray's not sure if this is part of his act.
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Okay. What about your father? Does
dialog: he watch the show?
text: Laughter from the crowd.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I don't know who my father is,
dialog: Murray. Turns out I was adopted and
dialog: sexually assaulted by my mother's
dialog: boyfriend.
text: A few in the audience groan. A couple even laugh. Still think
text: it's just Joker's edgy, off-kilter sense of humor.
text: Don Ellis plays "wha-wha-wha-whuuuuh" on his trumpet from the
dialog: band stand.
scene_heading: DR. SALLY FRIEDMAN
dialog: Ahhhh! No, no,-- You can not joke
dialog: about that.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (shakes his head;
dialog: irritated)
dialog: Yeah, that's not funny, that's not
dialog: the kind of humor we do on this
dialog: show.
text: Murray glances over at Gene in the wings. He gives him the
dialog: "wrap it up" sign.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (just keeps going, on a
dialog: roll)
dialog: Sorry. It's been a rough few
dialog: months, Murray. I mean, after my
dialog: mother died, the police came to
dialog: question me at her funeral. Who
dialog: does that?
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (too easy)
dialog: Oh really? Were you a suspect?
text: The audience laughs.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Very funny, Murray. No, they came
dialog: because I killed those three Wall
dialog: Street guys.
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 109.
text: Studio audience can't tell if he's joking or not. Murray
dialog: can't either.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (looks at him confused)
dialog: Okay. I'm waiting for the
dialog: punchline.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: There is no punchline. It's not a
dialog: joke.
scene_heading: 114 INT. DIRECTOR'S BOOTH, STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 114
text: The director stares at the monitor.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Did he just confess to killing the
dialog: Wall Street Three?
speaker_heading: TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
dialog: (horrified)
dialog: Yeah. I think he did.
speaker_heading: ASSOCIATE PRODUCER
dialog: (turns to the director,
dialog: nods)
dialog: He definitely did.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: Jesus Christ.
dialog: (hits the camera talk
dialog: button, into mic)
text: Camera Three, get in close.
text: ANGLE ON MONITOR, Camera Three zooming in close on Joker's
dialog: face.
scene_heading: 115 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - CONTINUOUS 115
text: Gene Ufland is now standing up from his chair. Motions for
text: Murray to kill the interview. Murray shakes his head to
dialog: himself. This is a big "get," it could be great television.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (turns back to Joker; with
dialog: gravitas)
dialog: You're serious, aren't you? You're
dialog: telling us you killed those three
dialog: boys on the subway. Why should we
dialog: believe you?
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: I got nothing left to lose, Murray.
dialog: Nothing can hurt me anymore. This
dialog: is my fate, it was always my fate.
dialog: My life is nothing but a comedy.
scene_heading: 116 INT. SOPHIE'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 116
text: Sophie's sitting on her couch watching this interview play
text: out on TV. GiGi's asleep next to her. The open envelope and
text: the money are lying on the coffee table. No sign of the
dialog: flowers anywhere.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: Let me get this straight, you think
dialog: killing those young men is funny?
speaker_heading: JOKER (ON TV)
dialog: Yeah. But comedy is subjective,
dialog: isn't that what they say? Besides,
dialog: the way I see it, what happened was
dialog: a good thing. All of you, Gotham,
dialog: the system that knows so much, you
dialog: decide, you decide what's right and
dialog: wrong. What's real or what's made
dialog: up. The same way you decide what's
dialog: funny or not.
text: Sophie edges forward on the couch, can almost see a hint of
text: agreement on her face.
scene_heading: 117 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 117
text: Back on set, we can tell by the way Murray's now interviewing
text: Joker, talking to him slower, more thoughtfully, that he
dialog: thinks this is gonna get him an Emmy... Maybe even a Peabody.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Okay, I think I understand. You did
dialog: it to start a movement, to become a
dialog: symbol.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: C'mon, Murray, do I look like the
dialog: kind of clown who could start a
dialog: movement? I killed those guys
dialog: because they were awful.
dialog: Everybody's awful these days. It's
dialog: enough to make anyone crazy.
dialog: 111.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: So that's it, you're crazy. That's
dialog: your defense for killing three
dialog: young men? Because they were mean
dialog: to you?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No. They couldn't carry a tune to
dialog: save their lives.
text: Some audible groans from the audience.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Why is everyone so upset about
dialog: these guys? Because Thomas Wayne
dialog: went and cried about them on TV?
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: You have a problem with Thomas
dialog: Wayne, too?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Yeah. I do. Everything comes so
dialog: easy for him.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: And what's wrong with that?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Have you seen what it's like out
dialog: there, Murray? Do you ever actually
dialog: leave the studio? Everybody just
text: yells and screams at each other.
dialog: Nobody's civil anymore. Nobody
dialog: thinks what it's like to be the
dialog: other guy. You think men like
dialog: Thomas Wayne, men at ease, ever
dialog: think what it's like to be a guy
dialog: like me? To be anybody but
dialog: themselves.
text: (shaking his head, voice
dialog: rising)
dialog: They don't. They think we'll all
dialog: just sit there and take it like
dialog: good little boys. That we won't
dialog: werewolf and go wild. Well, this is
dialog: for all of you out there.
text: Joker "howls at the moon." It's fucking weird.
dialog: 112.
scene_heading: 118 INT. STATION SQUAD ROOM - 7TH PRECINCT - CONTINUOUS 118
text: OFFICERS AND DETECTIVES JUMPING INTO ACTION, rushing past a
text: small portable black &amp; white television sitting on one of the
text: desks, hear one of them shout--
speaker_heading: POLICE LIEUTENANT (OS)
dialog: That asshole just confessed to
dialog: killing those Wall Street guys on
dialog: fucking live TV!
text: ANGLE ON THE LITTLE TV, TIGHT TWO-SHOT OF JOKER looking at
dialog: Murray.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN (ON TV)
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: So much self-pity, Arthur. You
dialog: sound like you're making excuses
dialog: for killing three young men. Not
dialog: everybody's awful.
scene_heading: 119 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - STUDIO 4B - CONTINUOUS 119
text: Back on set. Joker looks straight at Murray.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You're awful, Murray.
text: There is no more laughter. The audience is watching this
text: exchange with full attention.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: Me? How am I awful?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Playing my video, inviting me on
dialog: the show,-- You just wanted to make
dialog: fun of me. Well it's easy to laugh
text: at Frankenstein on a crowded beach,
dialog: isn't it? You're just like the rest
dialog: of them, Murray. Everything comes
dialog: too easy for you.
speaker_heading: MURRAY FRANKLIN
dialog: (on the spot; defensive)
dialog: You don't know the first thing
dialog: about me, pal. Look what happened
dialog: because of what you did, Arthur,
dialog: what it led to. There are riots out
text: there. Two policemen are in
dialog: critical condition, someone was
dialog: killed today.
dialog: 113.
text: Joker nods in agreement, yeah, it's because of what he did.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How about another joke, Murray?
dialog: What do you get when you cross a
text: mentally-ill loner with a system
text: that abandons him and treats him
dialog: like trash?
text: Murray pauses for a minute, not really listening to Joker,
text: suddenly realizing the seriousness of the situation. He
text: starts to turn to camera--
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (pulls Randall's gun)
dialog: I'll tell you what you get. You get
dialog: what you fucking deserve,--
text: And as Murray Franklin turns back to him, JOKER SHOOTS THE
scene_heading: SIDE OF MURRAY'S HEAD OFF--
text: Blood splatters all over the back of the set. Some spraying
text: in Joker's face. AUDIENCE SCREAMS! Dr. Sally dives for the
dialog: floor.
scene_heading: 120 INT. SOPHIE'S APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 120
text: Sophie screams and jumps to her feet horrified! Waking up
text: GiGi who starts to cry when she sees what's on television--
text: ON THE TELEVISION, Joker gets up and walks right up to the
text: camera. Blood sprayed over his white painted face. Hear the
text: studio audience still screaming, bedlam all around him.
speaker_heading: JOKER (ON TV)
dialog: (looks straight into
text: camera; screams Murray's
dialog: signature sign off)
scene_heading: GOOD NIGHT AND ALWAYS REMEMBER,--
speaker_heading: THAT'S LIFE!
text: And as Joker waves goodbye to the home audience, a black &amp;
text: white "INDIAN-HEAD TEST PATTERN" cuts off the show--
scene_heading: "PLEASE STAND BY"
text: HERB ALPERT'S "Spanish Flea" plays underneath.
dialog: Beat.
dialog: 114.
scene_heading: 121 INT. TALK SHOW SET, STAGE - CONTINUOUS 121
text: BACK LIVE IN THE STUDIO, JOKER'S TACKLED BY TWO SECURITY
text: GUARDS AND SOME STAGEHANDS, still hear screams of terror from
text: the audience around him.
text: HIS FACE HITS THE SHINY FLOOR AS IF IN SLOW MOTION--
text: And we HEAR the soft and familiar opening to FERRANTE &amp;
text: TEICHER's piano version of "Send in the Clowns".
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 122 INT. GOTHAM SQUAD CAR (MOVING), GOTHAM STREETS - NIGHT 122
text: JOKER GAZING OUT THE WINDOW, at all the violence and madness
text: in the city. We only see it in the reflection of the glass...
text: the fires burning... the mob crowding the streets. Joker's
text: handcuffed in the back of the squad car moving slowly through
text: the rioting, sirens wailing, red lights flashing, blood still
text: splattered on his face.
text: STAY ON JOKER'S FACE AS HE HEARS THE POLICE RADIO CRACKLING,
text: reports of rioters in "Joker" masks setting fires, breaking
text: windows, looting stores.
text: The images reflected in the window start to speed up as the
text: officer driving weaves faster through the chaos.
speaker_heading: POLICE OFFICER #1 (OS)
dialog: Look what you caused, you freak,
dialog: the whole city's on fire because of
dialog: you.
text: AND JOKER BANGS HIS HEAD HARD AGAINST THE STEEL MESH CAGE--
speaker_heading: BAM.
speaker_heading: POLICE OFFICER #2 (OS)
dialog: Keep it up, asshole. Watch what
dialog: happens when we get to the station.
text: HE BANGS HIS HEAD AGAIN. BAM. BAM. Some blood is forming on
dialog: his forehead--
speaker_heading: POLICE OFFICER #1 (OS)
dialog: (glancing at Joker in the
dialog: back seat, shouting)
dialog: -- Calm the fuck down, you're not
dialog: going anywhere!
text: And when the cop driving turns back, catch a glimpse of
text: someone or something running out into the street in front of
dialog: the speeding squad car--
dialog: 115.
text: CLOSE ON JOKER AS THE SQUAD CAR SWERVES OUT OF THE WAY, Joker
text: banging up against the door--
text: CRAAAASSSHHHHHH!!!!
text: The squad car hits a parked car hard and flips over, sliding
text: across the street on its roof--
scene_heading: 123 EXT. SQUAD CAR (SLIDING), STREET - CONTINUOUS 123
text: SPARKS FLY UNTIL FINALLY THE UPSIDE DOWN SQUAD CAR COMES TO A
text: STOP. Smoke rising from the wreck. Ferrante &amp; Teicher's piano
text: only version of "Send in the Clowns" still playing...
text: Both police officers in the front seat are either unconscious
text: or dead. We see movement in the back seat, hard to tell
dialog: what's going on inside.
text: Suddenly the back door kicks open--
text: And Joker falls out of the car, landing hard on the street,
text: one hand free, handcuffs dangling from his other hand. Hear
text: sirens in the distance--
text: JOKER LEANS BACK AGAINST THE CAR, his face bloody, his body
text: broken from the crash. Sitting there amongst the wreckage,
text: can still see and hear the chaos, the fires burning all
text: around him. He reaches for a jagged shard of broken glass--
text: And pauses for moment catching his breath, hand holding the
text: jagged glass resting on his lap, wailing sirens getting
text: closer, looks like he's about to cut his wrists--
scene_heading: 124 EXT. MOVIE THEATER, STREET - UPTOWN - CONTINUOUS 124
text: A WELL-HEELED CROWD LETTING OUT OF A MOVIE THEATER, the
dialog: violence has even reached up here, the nice part of town...
text: Sirens wailing, gangs of punks wearing "Joker" masks running
text: past, breaking car windows, fires burning... Catch a glimpse
text: of the lit up marquee listing the films playing, "Blow Out"
text: and "Zorro the Gay Blade". Hear "Send in the Clowns" still
dialog: playing...
text: FROM BEHIND SEE A SILHOUETTED COUPLE AND THEIR KID hurry down
text: the dark side of the street, ducking into an alley to avoid
dialog: the chaos--
text: Catch a glimpse of a punk in a "Joker" mask following after
dialog: them pulling a gun--
dialog: 116.
scene_heading: 125 EXT. SQUAD CAR (UPSIDE DOWN), STREET - CONTINUOUS 125
text: Joker lifts the jagged shard of glass, handcuff swinging...
text: Passes by his wrist... And starts cutting into the slit on
text: one corner of his mouth, making his smile longer and wider.
text: Blood pouring down his face, onto his hand...
text: Joker tearing into the other side of his mouth, jagged glass
text: ripping into his flesh, spurting blood, handcuff swinging--
text: Sirens on top of him, red lights flashing over his face--
text: ANGLE ON JOKER LIT UP RED, done cutting his smile, letting go
text: of the jagged bloody shard... Leans his head back against the
text: squad car, and closes his eyes, covered in his own blood.
text: He's finished.
dialog: Now he is the Joker.
scene_heading: 126 EXT. ALLEY, MOVIE THEATER - CONTINUOUS 126
text: FROM BEHIND, FAMILY IN THE SHADOWS sees the guy's eyes go
text: wide behind the mask, pointing his gun, music swelling--
speaker_heading: PUNK
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: You still think we're all fucking
dialog: clowns?
text: And the punk shoots the man. Reaches out and grabs something
text: off the woman's neck before he shoots her as well. Both fall
text: to the ground dead. Revealing their young son standing behind
dialog: them--
text: CLOSE ON EIGHT-YEAR-OLD BRUCE WAYNE, closing his eyes as
text: blood sprays across his face. He opens his eyes and looks up
text: scared at the man in the "Joker" mask who killed his parents,
text: Thomas and Martha Wayne. "Send in the Clowns" ends.
text: CUT TO BLACK.
text: A long beat.
text: HEAR LAUGHTER.
text: The sound of a man totally cracking up.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: 127 INT. ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL, INTERVIEW ROOM - MORNING 127
text: CLOSE ON JOKER, tears in his eyes from laughing so hard. He's
text: enjoying it, not trying to get it under control.
dialog: 117.
text: His head's been shaved. He looks medicated or maybe even
text: lobotomized. Wearing white institutional clothes.
text: HIS NEW SMILE IS ALL STITCHED UP, cut deep up the corners of
text: his mouth. Forming a longer, "happier" smile.
text: He's sitting across from an overworked HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: (50's), African American woman. Somehow it's the exact same
text: room Joker imagined his mother was in some 30 years ago. The
text: room and the doctor also look vaguely similar to the social
text: worker and her office in the opening scene.
text: The doctor just sits there, waiting for him to stop laughing.
text: A weathered notebook is on the table in front of him.
text: Finally, Joker stops himself.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: What's so funny?
text: He takes a deep breath, his eyes are glazed over. His voice
text: is scratchy, like he doesn't use it much.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: -- just thinking of this joke.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Do you want to tell it to me?
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Because you don't think I'll get
dialog: it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Because it's personal, it's between
dialog: me and him.
dialog: Beat.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Okay. Is the medication working?
dialog: How's your sleeping?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (nods yes)
dialog: ...
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: How are you feeling?
dialog: 118.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Good. Everything's good now.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Have you been writing in your
dialog: journal?
text: Joker slowly nods.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Great. I want to make sure you're
dialog: keeping up with it.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Yeah.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: Have you written about your
dialog: episode? About what happened?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How I remember it.
speaker_heading: HOSPITAL DOCTOR
dialog: (re: the journal)
dialog: Can I see?
text: Joker slides his journal across to her. She picks it up and
text: flips through the pages--
text: ANGLE ON JOURNAL, blank page after blank page, there's
text: nothing inside of it.
text: The doctor looks up at him confused.
text: ANGLE ON JOKER, a smile creeping across his face. And we HEAR
text: the groovy organ opening to FRANK SINATRA's anthem "That's
dialog: Life"...
dialog: Beat.
scene_heading: 128 INT. HALLWAY, ARKHAM STATE HOSPITAL - MORNING 128
text: From behind, see Joker shuffling down the hallway past all
text: the other mental patients, an orderly by his side. Sinatra
text: starts singing.
text: And Joker does a slide step to the music like he can hear it
text: too... into a skip... and another slide step into a spin...
text: Dancing down the hallway into the sunset...
speaker_heading: IRIS OUT:
dialog: 119.
text: "That's Life" keeps playing over credits.
speaker_heading: BATMAN BEGINS
text: BLACK. A low KEENING which becomes SCREECHING that BUILDS
text: and BUILDS until- RED flickers through black as the screen
text: BURSTS into life: Clouds of REELING BATS silhouetted against
text: a blood red sky, bolting away from camera, MASSING in the
text: sky... FORMING a density the shape of an enormous BAT-LIKE
text: SYMBOL. More BATS mass, swamping the symbol, DARKENING the
text: screen to- BLACK. Distant childrens LAUGHTER which comes
text: closer as- SUNLIGHT flickers through black. Sunlight through
text: trees running through a SUMMER GARDEN. A BOY. Chasing a
text: GIRL. The Boy reaches a Victorian GREENHOUSE. Stands in the
text: doorway catching his breath. This is Bruce Wayne, aged 8,
dialog: and we are-
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS, WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 1
text: YOUNG BRUCE peers down rows of plants on long trestle
dialog: tables.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: Rachel?
text: No response. Sunlight streams through wrought iron and
text: glass. Young Bruce advances, cautious. He is GRABBED from
text: behind and pulled under a table by a young girl, aged 10.
text: This is RACHEL. She puts her hand over Young Bruces mouth.
speaker_heading: FEMALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Rachel?! Master Bruce?!
text: A woman STRIDES past the windows: MRS.DODSON, Rachels
text: mother, housekeeper of Wayne Manor.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Whatre you doing?!
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (matter-of-fact)
dialog: Kidnapping you. They pay a lot for
dialog: precious Brucie.
text: Young Bruce stares, wide-eyed. She SMILES. He relaxes. Young
text: Bruce BOLTS out from under the trestle table - SPRINTS for
text: the back door. Rachel TEARS after him.
scene_heading: EXT. DISUSED KITCHEN GARDEN, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 2
text: Young Bruce crouches in the mouth of a DISUSED WELL, peering
text: over the stone wall at Rachel, who searches for him.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 2.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce, I can see you.
text: Young Bruce suppresses a giggle- the BOARDS beneath him GIVE
text: WAY and he PLUMMETS into...
scene_heading: INT. OLD WELL -- CONTINUOUS 3
text: Young Bruce DROPS thirty feet- LANDS painfully on the rubble
text: strewn bottom of the shaft.
scene_heading: EXT. KITCHEN GARDEN, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 4
text: Rachel, hearing, RUNS to the well.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: BRUCE?! !
scene_heading: INT. OLD WELL -- CONTINUOUS 5
text: Young Bruce lifts his head from damp dirt and rocks,
text: groaning.
scene_heading: EXT. KITCHEN GARDEN, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 6
text: Rachel SPRINTS towards the house.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: MOM!! MISTER ALFRED! !
scene_heading: INT. OLD WELL -- CONTINUOUS 7
text: Young Bruce, in shock, groans. He hears SQUEALING- freezes,
text: PEERING into the DARKNESS of an OPENING between rocks...
text: BATS EXPLODE from the darkness, filling the air. HE
text: SCREAMSCURLS against their flapping, squawking, fluttering
text: BLACKNESS.
text: A JOLT: OLDER GREEN EYES FLICK OPEN, WAKING... in DARKNESS.
dialog: Filthy, sweating darkness... and we are in-
scene_heading: INT. BHUTANESE JAIL -- MORNING
text: The eyes belong to a bearded, weathered, young mans face.
text: BRUCE WAYNE aged 28. An OLD ASIAN MAN sits staring at him.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: A dream?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: A nightmare.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Worse than this?
text: Their cell is a tin box. Light seeps through gaps in the
text: roof. Shouts ECHO. Wayne shrugs.
scene_heading: EXT. PRISON COURTYARD -- LATER 9
text: Wayne and the Old Man line up for gruel. PRISONERS are
text: scattered in small groups. All eyes on Wayne.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: They are going to fight you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I fought them yesterday.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: They will fight you every day.
dialog: Until they kill you.
text: Wayne holds out his plate. Watches gruel dribbled onto it.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Cant they kill me before
dialog: breakfast?
text: Wayne turns from the table. His path is blocked by an
text: ENORMOUS MAN, backed by six aggressive prisoners. The
text: Enormous Man SMASHES his plate away.
speaker_heading: ENORMOUS MAN
dialog: (broken English)
dialog: You are in hell, little man...
text: He PUNCHES Wayne- Wayne goes down hard.
speaker_heading: ENORMOUS MAN (CONTD)
dialog: ...and I am the devil.
text: Wayne picks himself up. Dust himself off.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 10
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 4.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre not the devil...
text: The Enormous Man SWINGS again- Wayne CATCHES his fist, KICKS
text: the big mans knee out an, as he goes down, BOOTS his face.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONTD)
dialog: ...youre practice.
text: Six Prisoners RUSH Wayne all at once... Wayne fights
text: skillfully and hard, FLIPPING one prisoner into another
text: KICKING as his arms are held... several Prisoners hit the
text: deck before- GUNFIRE- two GUARDS break it up, shooting into
dialog: the air... they GRAB Wayne.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Solitary!
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (indignant )
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: For protection.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I dont need protection.
text: The Guard points angrily at the unconscious prisoners.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Protection for them.
scene_heading: INT. SOLITARY, BHUTANESE JAIL -- MOMENTS LATER 10
text: Wayne is tossed into the dark cell. The door SLAMS.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: I often wonder at the riches to be
text: found in dark places.
text: The voice is mellifluous. European. It comes from the
text: shadows of a deep corner of the cell.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I thought the point of solitary
dialog: confinement was the solitary part.
text: Wayne can make out the profile of a MAN seated in the
dialog: corner.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 5.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: These men have mistaken you for a
dialog: criminal, Mr.Wayne...
text: Wayne reacts to his name. The Man steps into the light:
text: powerfully-built, distinguished, in a well-cut SUIT AND TIE.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: My name is merely Ducard. But I
dialog: speak for Ras Al Ghul. Have you
dialog: heard the name?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ive heard the legends...master
dialog: warrior, international mercenary,
dialog: feared by all the underworld...
dialog: some even swear hes immortal.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Ras Al Ghul uses theatricality and
dialog: deception as powerful weapons.
text: Ducard approaches Wayne. Looks deep into his eyes.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: You have not escaped his notice- a
dialog: man like you is here by choice...
dialog: or because he is truly lost.
text: Waynes eyes flick away from Ducards penetrating gaze.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Ras Al Ghul and his League of
dialog: Shadows offer a path to those that
dialog: are capable of upholding our code.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Code? Arent you criminals?
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: A criminal is simply a man that
dialog: someone else thinks...
dialog: (gestures around them)
dialog: should be put in jail.
text: Wayne nods, conceding the point.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 11
dialog: 12
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 6.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: This world is run by tyrants and
dialog: corrupt bureaucrats. Our code
dialog: respects only the natural order of
dialog: things- were not bound by their
dialog: hypocrisy. Are you?
text: Ducard moves to the door. Knocks. It is opened by a guard.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
text: There is a rare flower- a blue
text: doublebloomed poppy- that grows on
dialog: the Eastern slopes. Tomorrow you
dialog: will be released. Pick one of the
dialog: flowers. If you can carry it to the
dialog: top of the mountain, you may find
dialog: what you are looking for.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And what am I looking for?
text: Ducard looks at Wayne with a glint in his eye.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Purpose.
text: The door slams shut leaving Wayne in DARKNESS...
scene_heading: INT. BOTTOM OF THE OLD WELL -- DAY (WAYNES MEMORY) 11
text: Silence. Young Bruce lies there, exhausted, weeping softly.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE
dialog: Bruce?
text: Young Bruce looks up: a FIGURE, long coat billowing, is
text: lowered down the shaft... THOMAS WAYNE, Young Bruces
dialog: father.
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS, WAYNE MANOR -- MOMENTS LATER 12
text: Thomas carries his son towards the house. At his side, a 50-
text: year-old man in a somber suit calmly coils a rope: ALFRED.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Will we be needing an ambulance,
dialog: Master Wayne?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: We have everything I need to set
dialog: the bone. I1l1 take him for x-rays
dialog: later.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 13
dialog: 14
dialog: 15
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 7.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Very good, sir.
text: They pass a tearful Rachel standing with her mother.
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 13
text: Thomas carries Bruce up the main stairs. The house is vast
text: and grand, but full of flowers and life. Bruces Mother
text: (MARTHA) appears at the landing, distraught.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: (reassuring)
dialog: He1l be fine.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCES BEDROOM, WAYNE MANOR -- LATER 14
text: Alfred moves to the bedside. Looks down at Young Bruce.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Took quite a fall, didnt we?
text: Young Bruce looks up at Alfred. Manages a slight smile.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And why do we fall, Master Bruce?
text: Alfred reaches up to the curtains. Young Bruce says nothing.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: So that we might better learn to
dialog: pick ourselves up.
text: Alfred smiles gently. PULLS the curtains shut, and we-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: An exquisite double-bloomed BLUE POPPY... and we are-
scene_heading: EXT. HIMALAYAN FOOTHILLS -- DAY 15
text: A field of the blue poppies. Wayne approaches. Picks one.
text: Studies its brilliant blue in the cold sunshine.
dialog: 16
dialog: 17
dialog: 18
dialog: 19
scene_heading: EXT. TINY HAMLET, HIMALAYAS -- DAY 16
text: Wayne, exhausted, freezing, hungry, wanders up the street.
text: As locals see him they head inside. DOORS SLAMMED, BOLTED.
speaker_heading: CHILD (0.S.)
dialog: No one will help you.
text: Wayne turns to find a YOUNG CHILD STARING at him. The Child
text: POINTS at the blue flower pinned to Waynes chest. An OLD
text: MAN appears at the Childs side.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (weak)
dialog: I need food.
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: Then turn back.
text: Wayne looks at the Old Man. Then carries on up the mountain.
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAIN -- DAY 17
text: Wayne, struggles through DRIVING SNOW up an ICY RIDGE...
text: He clears the ridge, FLOPS down into the snow, Painfully
text: raises his scarf-wrapped face to the cutting wind to see a
text: MONASTERY perched on jagged rock.
scene_heading: EXT. HIMALAYAN FORTIFIED MONASTERY -- DAY 18
text: Wayne climbs up the steps to the VAST DOORS of the
text: monastery. Unwraps a severely FROSTBITTEN FIST. POUNDS
text: against the icecovered wood, knocks ECHOING deep within.
text: Nothing. Wayne lowers his forehead to the door, shoulders
text: wracked by SOBS, pounding accelerating to a FRENZY.
text: A GRINDING noise from within. Wayne STOPS, straightens. The
text: doors SWING OPEN to DARKNESS...
scene_heading: INT. GREAT HALL, MONASTERY -- CONTINUOUS 19
text: Wayne shuffles forward into a low-ceilinged wooden hall lit
text: by flickering lamps. Hands trembling, Wayne pulls at brittle
text: scarves. He STARTS as the doors THUD shut behind him.
text: At the far end, on a raised platform, sits a dark robbed
text: figure; RAS AL GHUL. Wayne moves unsteadily towards him...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 9.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: Ras Al Ghul?
text: ARMED WARRIORS of various races emerge from the SHADOWS:
text: BOWS taut, SWORDS drawn... NINJAS. Wayne freezes.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (0.S.)
dialog: Wait.
text: The Warriors hold. Wayne looks at the source of the command:
text: Ducard leans against a nearby pillar.
text: Wayne reaches into his layers of clothing. Pulls out the
text: DOUBLE-BLOOMED BLUE POPPY. Holds it out, shaking.
text: Ras Al Ghul starts to speak in Urdu. Ducard TRANSLATES.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Fear has been your guide. But now
dialog: you must advance or fear will keep
dialog: you on your knees. We will help you
dialog: conquer your fear. In exchange you
dialog: will renounce the cities of man.
dialog: You will live in solitude. You will
dialog: be a member of the Leagues of
dialog: Shadows. And you will be without
dialog: fear.
text: Ducard takes the flower. Considers its delicate blue petals.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Are you ready to begin?
text: Ducard threads the flower through the buttonhole of his
text: lapel. Wayne looks at Ducard, shaking with hunger and
dialog: fatigue.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ready? I... I can barely-
text: Ducard KICKS him- Wayne Crashes to the floor.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Death does not wait for you to be
dialog: ready...
text: Wayne crawls, gasping. Ducard STRIKES him in the ribs.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Death is not considerate, or fair.
dialog: And make no mistake- today, death
dialog: is your opponent.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 10.
text: Ducard turns- WHIPS his leg in a fearsome roundhouse KICK
text: aimed straight at Waynes NECK-
text: -but Wayne BLOCKS the kick with a lateral movement of his
text: forearm. He stares at Ducard, eyes BLAZING. Ducard SMILES.
text: Wayne RISES. Assumes a martial STANCE. Ducard STRIKESWayne
text: BLOCKS and PARRIES, driving his body through pain into a
text: series of FLUID, SKILLED moves...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Tiger Crane... Ju Jitsu...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Skilled. But this is not a dance-
text: Ducard GRAPPLES Wayne, BRAWLING, BITING, ENERGIZED, MESSY...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
text: Facing death you learn the truth... Ducards head smashes
dialog: Waynes cheek- Wayne FALTERS-
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: You are weak...
text: Ducard SMASHES him in the groin.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: You are alone...
text: Ducard SLAMS Waynes chin, sends him DOWN HARD.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: And you are afraid...
text: Ducard crouches at Waynes side. Looks into his glazed eyes.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: (curious)
dialog: But not of me.
text: Ducard pulls the flower from his lapel. Leans in close to
text: replace it on Waynes chest, his lips at Waynes ear...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Tell us, Wayne...
text: VIOLENT FLAPPING, SCREECHING BLACK RATS- swarming,
dialog: chittering-
speaker_heading: DUCARD (V.0.)
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: What do you fear?
dialog: 20
dialog: 11.
dialog: Young Bruces eyes OPEN, and we are-
scene_heading: INT. BRUCES BEDROOM, WAYNE MANOR -- DAWN (WAYNES MEMORY) 20
text: Young Bruce, breathing hard. Light cuts across the
text: bedclothes. He looks to the door. Thomas is there.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: (gentle)
dialog: The bats again?
text: Young Bruce nods. Thomas approaches. Sits on the bed.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: You know why they attacked you?
dialog: (off look)
dialog: They were afraid of you.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: Afraid of me?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Youre a lot bigger than a bat,
dialog: arent you? All creatures feel
dialog: fear.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Even the scary ones?
text: Thomas smiles back, reaches into his dressing gown pocket.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Especially the scary ones.
dialog: (thinks)
dialog: Here, let me show you something-
dialog: (freeze)
dialog: But you cant tell anyone, right?
text: Young Bruce nods, eager. Thomas pulls out a long jewel case.
text: He opens it: PEARLS glow in the half-light.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: For your mother.
text: Young Bruce GRINS. Thomas winks at him, SNAPS the case shut.
dialog: 21
dialog: 22
dialog: 23
dialog: 24
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATED TRAIN (MONORAIL) -- EVENING 21
text: Young Bruce watches the glory of Gotham glide past. His
text: parents beside him, dressed up- Martha idly stroking her
text: pearls. She smiles at Thomas.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: Did you build this train, Dad?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Your great-grandfather built the
text: first trains in Gotham. The citys
dialog: been good to our family- it was
dialog: time to give something back...
text: Thomas draws a CIRCLE in the CONDENSATION on the window...
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: A new public transportation system
dialog: for the whole city...
text: Thomas draws SPOKES through the circle, creating a WHEEL.
text: Thomas TAPS his diagram at the central HUB of the wheel,
text: then points through the glass to a tall 1930s SKYSCRAPER.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: ...and at the cent... Wayne Tower.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 22
text: The monorail train TURNS INWARDS on a "SPOKE"... SHOOTING
text: towards the central station at the base of Wayne Tower.
scene_heading: INT. CONCOURSE, WAYNE STATION -- MOMENTS LATER 23
text: Young Bruce STARES at the MAGNIFICENT STATION. He looks up
text: through the vaulted glass ceiling... WAYNE TOWER rises
text: above... Rich ORCHESTRAL STRINGS rise, and we are-
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM OPERA HOUSE -- LATER 24
text: A gilded house packed to the rafters for Boitos Mefistofle.
text: Young Bruce seated between his parents, On stage: WITCHLIKE
text: CREATURES cavort. DARK BIRDS on wires descend, FLAPPING.
text: Young Bruce STARES, uneasy, at their VIOLENT motions.
text: INSERT CUT: BATS EXPLODE FROM A DARK CREVICE.
text: Young Bruce starts breathing faster, STARES fixedly.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 25
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 13.
text: SCREECHING, FLAPPING BLACK BATS SWARM ALL AROUND...
text: Young Bruce, gulping PANIC breaths, looks around for an
text: exit- theyre in the middle of a row. He GRABS his Dads
dialog: arm.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: (desperate whisper)
dialog: Can we go?!
text: Thomas stares at his son, confused. Martha looks over. Young
text: Bruce looks at his father, PLEADING. Thomas nods. They make
text: their way along the row, Thomas nodding apologies...
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE ALLEY, GOTHAM OPERA HOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 25
text: The Waynes emerge from a side exit. Martha crouches before
text: Bruce, tries to meet his eyes. He stares down, ashamed.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: Bruce, whats wrong?
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Hes fine.
text: Martha looks up. Thomas gives her a conspiratorial look.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: I just needed a bit of air. Bit of
dialog: opera goes a long way, right,
dialog: Bruce?
text: Young Bruce looks up at his Dad, who winks. Young Bruce
text: smiles gratefully.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: Come one.
text: Thomas, coat over his arm, ushers his family down the dark
text: alley, heading for the WELCOMING GLOW of the main boulevard.
text: A FIGURE emerges from the shadows in front of them. A MAN.
text: With a GUN. Shifting uneasily.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Wallet, jewelry! Fast!
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: (calm tone)
dialog: Thats fine, just take it easy.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 14.
text: Thomas hands Young Bruce his coat, then reaches for his
text: wallet. The Man JERKS the gun at Thomas, eyes DARTING. Young
text: Bruce stares up at the gun TREMBLING in the Mans hand.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: Here you go.
text: The man GRABS at the wallet but FUMBLES it. It FALLS. The
text: Man glances down at the wallet then back to Thomas, scared.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: (reassuring tone)
dialog: Its fine, its fine...
text: The Man crouches for the wallet, eyes on Thomas.
speaker_heading: THOMAS (CONTD)
dialog: ...just take it and go.
text: The Man feels for the wallet, looks at Martha. Her pearls.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: I said jewelry!!
text: She starts pulling off her rings. The Man JERKS the gun at
text: her neck. Thomas STEPS protectively in front of his wife.
speaker_heading: THOMAS
dialog: Hey, just-
text: BOOM. Young Bruce FLINCHES. Thomas looks down at his
text: bleeding chest. Then back to the Man, saddened.
text: Thomas CRUMPLES. Martha SCREAMS. The Man REACHES for
text: Marthas pearls- but she SCREAMS desperately for Thomas.
speaker_heading: MARTHA
dialog: THOMAS! ! THOMAS! !
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: Gimme the damn...
text: But Martha FLAILS, trying to grab her fallen husband.
text: The Man SHOOTS her. Then YANKS at her necklace, which
text: BREAKS. Spilling PEARLS all over the asphalt.
text: The Man stands. Turns to Young Bruce. Who STARES at him.
text: Uncomprehending. The Man cannot bear the boys gaze...
text: And then he RUNS. Young Bruce looks at the bodies of his
text: parents. DROPS to his knees, head down: PEARLS dot the
text: asphalt beneath him. Some of them are bloody.
dialog: 26
dialog: 27
dialog: 15.
text: Young Bruce starts to SHIVER.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE STATION -- NIGHT 26
text: CHAOS: REPORTERS and COPS vying for a piece of the crime of
text: the decade. In the Captains office, Young Bruce.
text: Bewildered, forgotten. Still clutching his fathers
dialog: overcoat.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Is that your fathers?
text: Young Bruce looks up: a young beat cop stands over him- JIM
text: GORDON (29). Gordon crouches, reaches for the coat. Young
text: Bruce huddles over it, protective.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (reassuring)
dialog: ,
dialog: Its okay.
text: Gordons tone prompts Young Bruce to trust him. Gordon takes
text: the coat, DRAPES it gently across Young Bruces shoulders.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: GORDON! You gotta stick your nose
dialog: into everything!
text: Gordon turns to CAPTAIN LOEB, who glares at him.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN LOEB
dialog: Outta my sight.
text: Gordon NODS at Young Bruce, whose eyes wish Gordon would
text: stay. Gordon leaves. Loeb turns to Young Bruce.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN LOEB (CONTD)
dialog: Good news... we got him, son.
text: Young Bruce looks up at him dazed. Uncertain.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUNDS, WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 27
text: Snow falls over two open graves. MOURNERS disperse, guided
text: by SECURITY GUARDS. Alfred stands with Young Bruce. A man
text: approaches, EARLE (47). He nods at Alfred, crouching.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: (indicates Alfred)
dialog: Youre in excellent hands, Bruce.
dialog: And were minding the empire. When
dialog: youre all grown up, itll be
dialog: waiting.
dialog: 28
dialog: 29
dialog: 16.
text: Young Bruce looks blankly at Earle.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR -- LATER 28
text: Mourners file towards the gates. Rachel walks with her
text: mother. Looks up at Bruces high window. Sees him watching.
text: Waves. Young Bruce pauses, then returns the wave.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCES BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS 29
text: Alfred enters. Looks tenderly at Young Bruces back.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I thought Id prepare a little
dialog: supper.
text: No response. Alfred turns.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: Very well.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE (0.S.)
dialog: Alfred?
text: Alfred turns back. Young Bruce is looking at him with TEARS
text: POURING down his cheeks. Alfred tilts his head.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (voice catching)
dialog: Master Bruce?
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: It was my fault, Alfred.
text: Alfreds mouth opens.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE (CONTD)
dialog: I made them leave the theater-
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, no, no, no-
text: Alfred moves to Young Bruce, taking the boy in his arms.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: If I hadnt got scared-
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No, no, Master Bruce. Nothing you
dialog: did. Nothing anyone ever did can
dialog: excuse that man.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 30
dialog: 31
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 17.
text: Alfred holds Young Bruce away to look directly into his
dialog: eyes.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: Its his, and his alone. Do you
dialog: understand?
text: Young Bruce nods. Then BURIES his face in Alfreds chest,
text: sobbing.
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: I miss them, Alfred. I miss them so
dialog: much.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: So do I, Master Bruce. So do I.
text: Tears well in Alfreds eyes as he HOLDS the boy, watching
text: snowflakes swirl past the window.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (V.0.)
dialog: And do you still feel responsible?
scene_heading: INT. PASSAGEWAY, MONASTERY -- DAY 30
text: Ducard leads Wayne along a screened passage overlooking
dialog: extraordinary mountains.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: My anger outweighs my guilt.
text: Ducard opens a door...
scene_heading: INT. DOJO, MONASTERY -- DAY 31
text: Leads Wayne onto a MEZZANINE LEVEL stacked with boxes and
text: bottles. NINJAS pour powders into packets, mixing compounds.
text: Ducard takes a pinch of a powder- throws it down- BANG!
text: Wayne FLINCHES- Ducard SMILES good-naturedly.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Advanced techniques of Ninjitsu
dialog: employ explosive powders.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: As weapons?
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Or distractions. Theatricality and
dialog: deception are powerful agents.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 32
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 18.
text: Ducard hands Wayne a pinch of the powder.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: To be a great warrior is not
text: enough. Flesh and blood, however
dialog: skilled, can be destroyed... you
dialog: must be more than just a man in the
dialog: minds of your opponents.
dialog: Wayne listens to this. Tosses the powder- BANG!
scene_heading: EXT. FROZEN LAKE, HIMALAYAS -- DAY 32
text: Wayne and Ducard CIRCLE each other on the ICE, SWORDS poised
text: to strike. Dark figures in the white and blue landscape.
text: Ducard STRIKES at Wayne, who DEFLECTS the blow using a
text: SILVER GAUNTLET with THREE SCALLOPS (thick, hook-like
text: projections). Ducard SKIDS left, breath STEAMING, feinting
text: with his sword.
text: Wayne steps sideways on the ice, his foot landing on a thin
text: patch which CREAKS, water BUBBLING underneath.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Mind your surrounding. Always.
text: Wayne STRIKES- Ducard BLOCKS with his own BRONZE GAUNTLET.
text: Wayne SLIPS right and FLIES IN with a short THRUST- Ducards
text: arm flips down in a backhand move-
text: Ducard CATCHES Waynes sword in one of his SCALLOPS.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Your parents death was not your
dialog: fault...
text: Ducard ROTATES his arm, WRENCHING Waynes sword from his
text: grasp- it SKIDS along the ice.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: ...it was your fathers.
text: Wayne, ENRAGES, dives at Ducard, SWINGING at him with the
text: scallops, FURIOUS, RECKLESS. Ducard parries with his sword,
text: they LOCK- noses inches apart, Wayne BREATHING... ANGRY...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Anger does not change the fact that
dialog: your father failed to act.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 19.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: The man had a gun!
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Would that stop you?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ive had training-
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: The training is nothing. The will
dialog: to take control is everything. Your
dialog: father trusted his city, its
dialog: logic... he thought he understood
dialog: the attacker and could simply give
dialog: him what he wanted...
text: Wayne considers this... breathing slowing... CALMER... they
dialog: separate.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: (gently)
dialog: Your father did not understand the
dialog: forces of decay- cities like Gotham
text: are in their death throes- chaotic,
text: grotesque. Beyond saving.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Beyond saving? You believe that?
text: Ducard regards the harshly beautiful landscape.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: It is not right that one must come
dialog: so far to see the world as it is
dialog: meant to be. Purity. Serenity...
dialog: Solitude. These are the qualities
dialog: we hold dear. But the important
dialog: thing is whether you believe it...
text: Wayne stares at Ducard.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Can Gotham can be saved, or is she
dialog: an ailing ancestor whose time has
dialog: run?
text: Ducard STRIKES DOWN at Wayne with his sword. Wayne BLOCKS
text: the strike with FOREARMS CROSSED, SLIDES BETWEEN DUCARDS
text: LEGS across the ice to where his sword lies.
text: GRASPING his sword he SPINS, SWEEPING at Ducards feet.
text: Ducard LEAPS- Wayne CATCHES his foot, brings him down onto
text: the ice. Wayne THRUSTS his sword at Ducards throat-
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 33
dialog: 34
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 20.
text: STOPS INCHES from Ducards bare neck. Ducard freezes, arms
text: at his sides. Wayne looks down at Ducard, SMILING in
dialog: triumph.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yield.
text: Ducard smiles. Shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: You havent beaten me. Youve
dialog: sacrificed sure footing for a
dialog: killing stroke.
text: Ducard TAPS the ice beneath Waynes feet with his sword- the
text: ice gives way, PLUNGING Wayne through the surface.
scene_heading: EXT. SHORE, FROZEN LAKE -- EVENING 33
text: Ducard feeds a small FIRE. Wayne RUBS his arms, SHIVERING
text: violently against hypothermia. Ducard looks at him.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Dont rub your arms, rub your
dialog: chest. Your arms1l1 take care of
dialog: themselves.
text: Wayne rubs his torso, NODS at Ducard. Ducard feeds the fire.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: You have strength born of years of
text: grief and anger, Wayne. The
text: strength of a man denied revenge.
text: Even in his shivering, Wayne REACTS to this.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: Why, Wayne. .?
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE STATION PLATFORM -- DAY (WAYNES MEMORY) 34
text: A monorail pulls into the platform. Disgorges passengers.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (V.0.)
dialog: Why could you not avenge your
dialog: parents?
text: Amongst them, Bruce, AGED 20, holding a bag. He sees Alfred,
text: now 62, craning his neck, SEARCHING. He waves.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 35
dialog: 36
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 21.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You didnt have to pick me up-
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Well, sir, the red line... well,
dialog: its closed. Apparently Mr.Earle
dialog: thought it wasnt making enough
dialog: money.
scene_heading: INT. CONCOURSE, WAYNE STATION -- MOMENTS LATER 35
text: Bruce looks sadly at the DECAY to his fathers station:
text: glass CRACKED, marble chipped, HOMELESS bundled in shuttered
text: storefronts... He looks up through the sparing glass: WAYNE
text: TOWER looms overhead, gold lettering catching the sun...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How is Mr.Earle?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh... successful.
scene_heading: INT. ROLLS ROYCE -- LATER 36
text: Alfred glances at Bruce in the rear-view mirror.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Will you be heading back to
dialog: Princeton tomorrow or could I
dialog: persuade you to spend an extra
dialog: night or two?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Im not heading back at all.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You dont like it there?
text: Bruce smiles, sardonic. Looks out at the trees flashing by.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I like it fine... they just dont
dialog: feel the same way.
text: Alfred purses his lips, IRRITATED.
dialog: 37
dialog: 38
dialog: 22.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR -- MOMENTS LATER 37
text: Bruce STARES up at house. Alfred pulls the bag out of the
text: car and, to Bruces surprise, DROPS it at Bruces feet.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 38
text: Alfred leads Bruce up the main staircase. The house is now
text: dark and empty. Dust-cloths cover much of the furniture.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (tense)
dialog: Ive prepared the master bedroom.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My old room will be fine.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (stern)
dialog: With all due respect, sir, your
dialog: father is dead. Wayne Manor is your
dialog: house.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: No, Alfred, his isnt my house.
dialog: (gestures)
text: Its a mausoleum. A reminder of
dialog: everything I lost. And when I have
dialog: my way I1l1 pull the damn thing
dialog: down brick by brick-
text: Alfred turns on Bruce, angry.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: This house, Master Wayne, has
dialog: sheltered six generations of the
dialog: Wayne family, and stood patiently
dialog: by while youve cavorted in and out
dialog: of a dozen private schools and
dialog: colleges. As have I.
text: Bruce stares at Alfred. Eyes burning. Chastened.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: (softer)
dialog: The Wayne family legacy is not so
dialog: easily shrugged off.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (sadly)
dialog: Nor borne, old friend. Im sorry to
dialog: have disappointed you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 39
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 23.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne... I was at your
dialog: fathers side when you were born.
dialog: And at your side when he was laid
dialog: to rest.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (voice catching)
dialog: I know.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Your father was a great man. But I
dialog: have every confidence that you will
dialog: exceed his greatness.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Havent given up on me, yet?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (conviction)
dialog: Never.
text: Bruce sags under the burden of Alfreds faith. He opens the
text: door to his bedroom, then turns back to Alfred...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I may not get another chance to
dialog: thank you for all youve done for
dialog: me.
text: Alfred looks at him, curious.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Are you going away after the
dialog: hearing?
text: Bruce shrugs, hard to read. Then enters his old bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCES BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS 39
text: Bruce puts his bag on the bed. Looks around the room.
text: At the mantel, Bruce stares at a framed photograph: Young
text: Bruce on his Dads shoulders, arms raised in triumph. Bruce
text: wipes dust from the photograph. Smiles at it.
text: INSERT CUT: Young bruce on Thomass shoulders- Thomas TIPS
text: back, threatening to drop Young Bruce who LAUGHS and LAUGHS.
text: Bruce moves to the bed. Opens his case.
text: Inside it is a GUN.
dialog: 40
dialog: 41
dialog: 42
dialog: 24.
scene_heading: EXT. GATES, WAYNE MANOR -- MORNING 40
text: Rachel, now 23, stands by her car looking up at the house.
text: She can see Bruce in the window. She gives a small wave.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCES BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS 41
text: Bruce returns Rachels wave. Then FINISHES LOADING HIS GUN.
scene_heading: EXT. GATES, WAYNE MANOR -- MOMENTS LATER 42
text: Bruce walks down the drive to Rachel. He smiles gently.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You look well. "Assistant District
dialog: Attorney", right?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (nods, smiles)
dialog: You still trying to get kicked out
dialog: of the entire ivy league?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (shakes head, smiling)
dialog: Turns out you dont actually need a
dialog: degree to do the international
dialog: playboy thing.
text: Rachel smiles. Looks down at her shoes. Then back to Bruce.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce, I dont suppose theres any
dialog: way I can convince you not to come-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (cold)
dialog: Someone at this proceeding should
dialog: stand for my parents.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce, we all loved your parents.
dialog: What Chill did is unforgivable-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Then why is your boss letting him
dialog: go?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Because in prison he shared a cell
dialog: with Carmine Falcone. He learned
dialog: things and hell testify in
dialog: exchange for early parole.
dialog: 43
dialog: 44
dialog: 45
dialog: 25.
text: Bruce shakes his head, opens the car door. Rachel sighs.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. RACHELS CAR ON FREEWAY, GOTHAM -- MORNING 43
text: Rachels car heads towards the golden spires of Gotham.
text: Bruce stares out the window in silence.
scene_heading: INT. RACHELS CAR -- MOMENTS LATER 44
text: Rachel pulls into the PARKING LOT of the COURTHOUSE. Parks.
text: Bruce looks at her through the strained silence.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Rachel, this man killed my parents.
dialog: I cannot let that pass.
text: Rachel almost says something. Then SHRUGS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (CONTD)
dialog: Rachel, I need you to understand.
text: Rachel looks at Bruce. Considering. Gently NODS. Bruce nods
text: back. Rachel opens her door and starts getting out.
text: Bruce slips out his GUN, placing it on the ground behind the
text: front wheel of Rachels car as he gets out.
scene_heading: INT. COURTHOUSE -- DAY 45
text: A small bureaucratic proceeding. A five person PANEL. Bruce
text: sits amongst the OBSERVERS. Watching the back of Chilis
text: head. Rachels boss, FINCH, addresses the panel.
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: Given the exemplary prison record
dialog: of Mr.Chill, the 14 years already
dialog: served and his extraordinary level
dialog: of cooperation with one of this
dialog: offices most important
dialog: investigations... we strongly
dialog: endorse Mr.Chills petition for
dialog: early release.
text: The CHAIRMAN nods, consults his paperwork
speaker_heading: CHAIRMAN
dialog: I gather a member of the Wayne
dialog: family is here today...
text: Chill REACTS, TURNING. Bruce STUDIES his weathered face.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 46
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 26.
speaker_heading: CHAIRMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: ...does he have anything to say?
text: Chill notices Waynes cold eyes. Has to look away. Bruce
text: RISES, walks out, all eyes on him. Including Rachels.
scene_heading: EXT. PARKING LOT, COURTHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER 46
text: Bruce MOVES to Rachels car. Picks up his GUN, stuffs it up
text: the sleeve of his overcoat. Waits.
text: The side exit opens and two COPS come out. A shout goes up
text: from the pressmen around the front of the courthouse.
speaker_heading: REPORTERS
dialog: Theyre taking him out the side!!
text: REPORTERS swarm around the building as Chill emerges.
speaker_heading: REPORTER1
dialog: Chill, any words for the Wayne
dialog: family?!!
text: Chill, head down, presses on. Bruce straightens. Breathes.
text: Starts WALKING towards Chill. A Reporter SPOTS him.
speaker_heading: REPORTER2
dialog: Its Bruce Wayne!
text: The Reporters clear a path, eager for a confrontation.
scene_heading: BLONDE FEMALE REPORTER
dialog: Joe! Hey Joe!!
text: This one catches Chills eye- blonde, local t.v. type.
text: Bruces hand DROPS to his side as he MOVES... hes BREATHING
scene_heading: HARD... THINKING... DECIDING...
speaker_heading: BLONDE FEMALE REPORTER (CONTD)
dialog: Falcone says hi!!
text: She THRUSTS a gun at Chills chest and FIRES. Chill DROPS-
text: Bruce STOPS in his tracks. Reporters DIVE for cover- COPS
text: jump on the Blonde Reporter, pinning her...
text: Bruce. Fifteen feet away. Loaded gun up his sleeve. Face as
text: uncomprehending as the night Chill killed his parents.
text: Rachel moves to Bruce, pulling him away from the chaos.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 47
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 27.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Come one, Bruce. Come on, we dont
dialog: need to see this.
text: Bruce yanks his arm away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I do.
scene_heading: INT. RACHELS CAR -- EVENING 47
text: Rachel drives. Bruce sits there, hands in his lap. Staring.
text: Rachel glances over at him. Then pulls over. Turns to him.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (gentle)
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (distant)
dialog: All these years I wanted to kill
dialog: him. Now hes gone. Now I cant.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You dont mean that.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (bitter)
dialog: What if I do, Rachel? Chill killed
dialog: my parents. They deserved justice.
text: Rachel looks at him, appalled.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Youre not talking about justice,
dialog: youre talking about revenge.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Sometimes theyre the same.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Theyre never the same, Bruce.
dialog: Justice is about harmony... revenge
dialog: is about you making yourself feel
dialog: better. Thats why we have an
dialog: impartial system-
text: Rachel pulls out into the street.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well, your system of justice is
dialog: broken-
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 48
dialog: 49
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 28.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Dont you tell me the systems
dialog: broken, Bruce! Im out here every
dialog: day trying to fix it while you mope
dialog: around using your grief as an
dialog: excuse to do nothing. You care
dialog: about justice. .?
dialog: Rachel YANKS the wheel-
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 48
text: Rachels car SCREECHES across two lanes, onto an EXIT RAMP.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. RACHELS CAR ON SURFACE STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 49
text: The streets below are DARK, crowded and THREATENING-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Look beyond your own pain, Bruce.
text: Rachel gestures at the filthy streets. Down dark alleys-
text: shadowy figures conduct business.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: This city is rotting. Chill is not
dialog: the cause, hes the effect.
text: Corruption is killing Gotham and
dialog: Chill being dead doesnt help that-
dialog: it makes it worse because Falcone
dialog: walks. He carries on flooding our
dialog: city with crime and drugs...
dialog: creating new Joe Chills... Falcone
dialog: may not have killed your parents,
text: Bruce, but hes destroying
dialog: everything they stood for...
text: They pull up in front of a BASEMENT CLUB.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: They all know where to find
dialog: Falcone...
dialog: (gestures at club)
dialog: But no one will touch him because
dialog: he keeps the bad people rich and
dialog: the good people scared.
text: Rachel turns on Bruce.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 50
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 29.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: (quiet )
dialog: And what chance does Gotham have
dialog: when the good people do nothing?
text: She pokes him in the chest. Bruce looks down at her finger.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Im not one of your "good people"
dialog: Rachel. Chill took that from me.
text: Rachel looks at Bruce strangely.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What do you mean?
text: Bruce pulls up his sleeve. Turns his hand over. Rachel
text: stares at the GUN in his hand, SHOCKED.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I was going to kill him myself.
text: She looks at Bruce. Then SLAPS him. Bruce does nothing.
text: Rachel SLAPS him again and again... Nothing. She stops.
text: Tears flowing.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Youre no better than the rest.
text: Rachel points at the gun. Looks into Bruces eyes.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Your father would be ashamed of
dialog: you.
text: Bruce stares at Rachel. Opens his door.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCK AREA, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 50
text: Bruce watches Rachels car disappear. Turns to look at the
text: line of SHIPS in the harbor. He makes his way to the water.
text: Takes out his gun. Turns it, STUDIES the light off its
dialog: metal-
text: INSERT CUT: the TREMBLING BARREL of Chills gun, inches from
text: Thomas Waynes chest.
text: Bruce, with contempt, FLINGS his gun into the black water.
dialog: 51
dialog: 52
dialog: 30.
scene_heading: EXT. BASEMENT CLUB, FACING DOCKS -- LATER 51
text: Bruce walks towards the entrance. A BOUNCER steps out,
text: looking at him with contempt.
speaker_heading: BOUNCER
dialog: Get lost, kid.
text: Bruce pulls a massive wad of cash from his pocket. Splits it
dialog: in two. Offers one half.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The other half when you give me the
text: nod that Falcones leaving.
dialog: Unawares.
text: The Bouncer looks at Bruce. Takes the money.
scene_heading: EXT. BASEMENT CLUB, FACING DOCKS -- LATER 52
text: Bruce watches the entrance from the shadows. Two THUGS
text: escort a thickset man out of a club. The Bouncer waves-
speaker_heading: BOUNCER
dialog: "Night, Mr.Falcone.
text: The three men move towards a waiting limo-
text: WHAM- one Thug takes a kick to the head, goes down- Bruce
text: steps from the shadows- the Second Thug goes for his gun-
text: Bruce GRABS his arm- CHOPS his throat- JUDO FLIPS the
dialog: thug...
text: Bruce turns to Falcone who looks at him, curious.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: The little rich kid. No gun? Im
dialog: insulted.
text: The First Thug lunges at Bruce with a KNIFE- Bruce puts him
text: down with a graceful SWEEP-
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I dont need a gun.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Yes, you do.
text: CLICK. A gun is at Bruces head. Held by the Bouncer.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 31.
speaker_heading: FALCONE (CONTD)
dialog: Money isnt power down here- fear
dialog: is.
text: The Bouncer pistol whips him once, hard. Bruce goes down.
text: The Bouncer drops Bruces money onto him.
speaker_heading: FALCONE (CONTD)
dialog: You shoulda just sent me a
dialog: thank-you note...
text: Bruce looks up at Falcone. Spits blood.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I didnt come here to thank-you. I
dialog: came to show you that not everyone
dialog: in Gotham is afraid of you.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Just those that know me. You got
dialog: balls, kid...
dialog: (cold)
dialog: But you dont belong down here with
dialog: us. We dont play fair. Now go back
dialog: to your big house, wrap yourself in
dialog: your silk sheets and I1l send you
text: a shoulder to cry on.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You dont dress well enough to be a
dialog: pimp.
text: Falcone lights a cigar. Stares down at bruce. Ice.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: You miss your Mommy and Daddy? Come
dialog: down here again, I send you to
dialog: them.
text: Falcone turns. His thugs get into the limo with him. Bruce
text: watches it slide into the night. Struggles to his feet...
text: Bruce walks the docks, wiping blood from his mouth. SHADOWS
text: in doorways mark his progress. Three YOUTHS approach. Bruce
text: stiffens, but they cross the street to avoid him.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: No one1l mess with ya.
text: Bruce turns. A HOMELESS MAN warming at a flaming oil drum.
text: One of many HOMELESS clustered around the docks.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 32.
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: Wander round here dressed like
dialog: that, means you got something to
dialog: prove. Man with something to prove
dialog: is dangerous.
text: Bruce STARES at the man. Thinking. Takes out his wallet.
text: Removes the money. Hands it to the Homeless Man.
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN (CONTD)
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Your jacket.
text: Bruce DROPS his wallet into the fire. The Homeless Man
text: LAUGHS. Bruce pulls off his tie, throws it into the fire. He
text: pulls off his overcoat, bundles it up ready to-
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: Lemme have it, thats a good coat.
text: Bruce looks at the Homeless Man, who has removed his own.
text: They EXCHANGE clothing.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Be careful who sees you with that.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Theyre gonna come looking for me.
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: who?
text: Bruce smiles.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Everyone.
text: Bruce, less incongruous in his "new" coat, moves down
text: towards the stacks of containers...
text: Bruce wanders the stacks. A HORN sounds. Bruces eyes lock
text: onto the ship preparing to leave. Bruce runs towards it
dialog: trough the shadows...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (0.S.)
dialog: And when you left Gotham...
dialog: And we are-
dialog: 33.
scene_heading: 53 EXT. HIMALAYAN MONASTERY -- DAY 53
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: ...what were you seeking?
text: Ducard LEAPS up onto a STONE WALL. GRABBING ON using pikes
text: on his palms and on his feet. Wayne watches.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To lose myself. I couldnt do
dialog: anything as Bruce Wayne. I felt
dialog: useless.
text: Ducard gestures up to the top of the 50-ft wall.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Perhaps you can beat my record.
text: Bruce JUMPS up onto the wall, HIGHER than Ducard. Confident.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Two days.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: The test is not to see how quickly
dialog: you can climb, but how slowly. The
text: Ninja is thought invisible, but
dialog: invisibility is largely a matter of
dialog: patience.
text: Ducard reaches up for another handhold. Slowly.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: On your journey... you sought
dialog: knowledge of the criminal world?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (nods)
dialog: I needed to understand the thoughts
dialog: and feelings of those who stand in
dialog: the shadows...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 54 EXT. CROWDED MARKET, AFRICAN PORT TOWN -- EVENING (MEMORY) 54
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: The first time youre forced to
dialog: steal not to starve...
dialog: 55
dialog: 56
dialog: 34.
text: Bruce picks up a mango from a stack to examine it. As he
text: does so he uses his lower hand to slip a PLUM into his
dialog: pocket.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY, AFRICAN PORT TOWN -- LATER 55
text: Bruce squats in a doorway. Bites hungrily into his plum. He
text: looks up. A CHILD in rags sits in the next doorway, STARING.
text: Bruce stares back, juice dripping.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0O.)
dialog: ...you lose many assumptions about
dialog: the simple nature of right and
dialog: wrong.
text: Bruce hands the Child the plum. Licks his fingers. Hard.
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN STATION, LONDON -- DAY 56
text: Bruce (bearded, filthy) in a crowd, with an ELDERLY MAN.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: I needed to feel the fear before a
dialog: crime...
text: The Elderly Man SPOTS a BUSINESSMAN hurrying along- STEPS
text: into his path, engineering a COLLISION, tumbling to the
text: pavement. The Businessman and Bruce both CROUCH to help.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: And the thrill of success...
text: Bruce SLIPS the Businessmans wallet out of his pocket. The
text: Businessman moves off. Bruce shows the Elderly Man the
text: wallet for APPROVAL. Then HURRIES after the Businessman.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ...without becoming one of them.
text: Bruce CATCHES the Businessman, gives him the wallet. The
text: Businessman thanks Bruce- noticing his destitution, he HANDS
text: Bruce a banknote. Bruce nods thanks.
dialog: 31.
dialog: 57
dialog: 58
dialog: 59
dialog: 35.
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE, UNDER THE ARCHES, EASTERN EUROPE -- NIGHT 57
text: Bruce tries to crack a safe under the supervision of a YOUNG
text: TOUGH. The Young Tough shakes his head, spins the dial and
text: whips open the safe. Showing Wayne the action.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: I thought I would find something...
scene_heading: INT. SMOKE-FILLED BACKROOM, SHANGHAI -- NIGHT 58
text: At a table with a CHINESE BOSS and SEVEN CRIMINALS drinking,
text: laughing, showing each other their spoils (watches, phones)
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.O.)
dialog: I thought I would learn what I
dialog: needed to do with my skills and my
dialog: anger...
scene_heading: INT. WAREHOUSE, SHANGHAI -- DAY 59
text: A TRUCK races through the door. Two Criminals yank the doors
text: shut after. Bruce and the Boss jumps down from the cab.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: But the harder I looked the less I
dialog: saw. The less I knew...
text: Bruce turns to the Boss wary.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wheres this friend of yours?
dialog: Boss
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Not friend. Friend of friend.
text: Bruce rolls his eyes. Looks at the Boss with contempt.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: Until I wasnt even sure what Id
dialog: been looking for in the first
dialog: place...
text: The doors EXPLODE COPS burst in, shouting in Mandarin.
dialog: 60
dialog: 61
dialog: 36.
scene_heading: INT. SAME -- LATER 60
text: The back of the truck is opened. Cops inventory piles of
text: BOXES pulled out of the back.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: And I was lost.
text: Bruce sits in a line of criminals, hands cuffed behind back.
text: A Cop YANKS him to his feet, hauling him over to an OFFICER.
speaker_heading: CoP
dialog: (in Mandarin)
text: He refuses to give his name.
text: The Officer smiles solicitously at Bruce.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: (in Mandarin)
dialog: Fool- this is China, youre a
dialog: criminal, what the hell do I care
dialog: what your name is?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (in fluent Mandarin)
dialog: Im not a criminal.
text: The Officer, surprised, waves Bruce away. Looks at the
dialog: truck.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: (in accented English)
dialog: Tell that to the guys who owned
dialog: these!
text: He KICKS a BOX: CLOSE ON the WAYNE INDUSTRIES logo.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WALL, HIMALAYAN MONASTERY -- DAWN 61
text: Wayne and Ducard cling to the wall just short of the roof,
text: eyes LOCKED. Both are in AGONY, sweat-drenched, STRAINING.
text: Ducard BLINKS. REACHES for the roof and pulls himself up.
text: Wayne closes his eyes in relief. Ducard pulls Wayne up onto
text: the roof. They lie there in the half-light. Ducard turns to
text: Wayne. Puts a hand on his shoulder. Proud.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: You are ready.
dialog: 62
dialog: 37.
scene_heading: INT. THRONE ROOM -- NIGHT 62
text: Close on Waynes BLUE POPPY- now SHRIVELED DRY- on the
text: altar. Wayne, clad in black ninja uniform watches as Ducard,
text: also in black, picks it up, takes a pestle and mortar, drops
text: in the dried flower, and grinds it to dust.
text: Ducard pours the dust into a small brazier. Lights it.
text: Motions to Wayne, who approaches the smoking altar.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Drink in your fears. Face them.
text: Wayne breathes the smoke. He shakes his head, REACTING to
text: the effects of the smoke... his mind is plagued by IMAGES:
text: Chills trembling gun- Young Bruce FALLING- Thomas
speaker_heading: STAGGERING-
text: Ducard puts on his ninja mask. Motions Wayne to do the same.
text: Wayne STRUGGLES to think through the effects of the smoke...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why The masks?
text: As if in reply, DOZENS of NINJAS step forward from the
text: shadows: the hall is filled with identical Ninjas. Ducard
text: has melted into the crowd. Wayne raises his guard...
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: To conquer fear, you must become
dialog: fear... you must bask in the fear
dialog: of other men... and men fear most
dialog: what they cannot see-
text: Ducard STRIKES at Wayne- Wayne SPINS, PARRIES- but Ducard
text: has gone. The Ninjas movie in unison, forming WALLS...
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: It is not enough to be a man... you
dialog: have to become an idea... a
dialog: terrible thought... a wraith-
text: The Ninja nearest Wayne TURNS and SLASHES- it is Ducard.
text: Wayne LEAPS sideways, ROLLING through the wall of Ninjas. He
text: looks at his arm- it has been slashed, the uniform torn a
text: dead giveaway. Wayne looks around, crouched, READY...
text: One wall of Ninjas PARTS, revealing a WOODEN BOX. Wayne
text: stares at it, MIND SPINNING from the smoke.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 38.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (0.S.)
dialog: Face your fear...
text: Wayne cautiously approaches the box. Carefully lifts the
text: lid. PEERS inside...
text: BATS EXPLODE from the box, FILLING the air- Wayne dives away
text: from the box, STARING up at the squawking bats- flinching...
text: Ducard LEAPS at Wayne, who ROLLS sideways, blocking- Wayne
text: turns to face Ducard, but he is lost in the Ninjas, bats
text: filling the air, Wayne FLINCHING with their attacks...
text: Wayne stays low, SLASHES the arm of the Ninja nearest him-
text: the man does not move. Wayne turns. Fighting to THINK.
text: A Ninja paces softly through the crowd, as he speaks, we can
dialog: tell this is Ducard...
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Become one with the darkness...
text: Ducard falls in behinds a Ninja with a SLASHED SLEEVE... He
text: KNOCKS him to his knees, sword against throat-
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: You cannot leave any sign...
text: Ducard pulls off his own mask. Disappointed.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (0.S.)
dialog: I haven't.
text: A SWORD IS AT DUCARDS NECK- Wayne is behind him, pulling
text: off his mask. Ducard looks around... several of the Ninjas
text: around them have slashed sleeves. Ducard smiles.
text: The Ninjas TURN, in unison, and sit.
text: Ras Al Ghul is seated on a small stage at the head of the
text: room. Ducard leads Wayne to sit down in front of Ras. A
text: Ninja places a tray between them: a bottle and a burning
text: candle. Ducard places the candle in front of Wayne and hands
text: him a small glass. Ras Al Ghul begins speaking in Urdu.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: We have purged your fear. You are
dialog: ready to lead these men. You are
dialog: ready to become a member of the
dialog: League of Shadows. Drink.
text: Wayne tips back the glass. Strong stuff.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 39.
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: By blowing out this candle you
dialog: renounce your mortal life. You
dialog: renounce forever the cities of man.
dialog: You dedicate your life to solitude.
text: Wayne leans forward to blow out the candle. PAUSES. Looks at
text: the rows of seated Ninjas.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Where will I be leading these men?
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: You will need them in Gotham.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You want me to go back to Gotham?
text: Ras stares at Wayne. Starts speaking...
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: You yourself are a victim of
dialog: Gothams decay. That is why you
dialog: came here, and that is why you must
dialog: go back. You will assume the mantle
dialog: of your birthright. As Gothams
dialog: favored son you will be ideally
dialog: placed...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: To help us destroy the city.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What?!
speaker_heading: DUCARD
text: When Gotham falls, the other cities
dialog: will follow in short order.
dialog: Natures balance will be restored
dialog: and Man will finally return to
dialog: solitude.
text: Wayne turns to Ducard.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You cant believe in this.
text: Ducard looks at Wayne, troubled.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 63
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 40.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Ras Al Ghul has rescued you from
dialog: the darkest corner of your own
dialog: heart... what he asks in return is
dialog: obedience. And the courage to do
dialog: what is necessary.
text: Wayne stares down at the flickering candle. At the bottle.
text: Wayne FLICKS his sword out, SMASHING the bottle, TIPPING the
text: candle- FLAMES spread across the wooden floor-
speaker_heading: DUCARD (CONTD)
dialog: (reaching to extinguish
dialog: flames)
dialog: What are you doing?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Whats necessary.
text: Wayne STRIKES Ducard in the head with the butt of his sword,
text: DOUSES his mask in the liquid fire and TOSSES it back into
dialog: the mezzanine where the explosive powders are stored...
text: Ras LEAPS from his throne, STRIKING at Wayne with his
text: sword- Wayne parries- EXPLOSIONS roar from the balcony,
text: shooting flame across the ceiling- Ras and Wayne fight as
text: EXPLOSIONS surround them...
text: Wayne LEAPS clear as FLAMING DEBRIS collapses onto Ras,
text: CRUSHING him... the flames are rising, Ninja bodies are
text: strewn around, fresh explosions rip across the hall as
text: Ninjas flee and Wayne spots Ducard lying unconscious.
text: Wayne PICKS UP Ducard, hauls him out of the Throne room,
text: into a passage, SMASHING THROUGH an ornate screen...
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINS -- CONTINUOUS 63
text: Wayne and Ducard CRASH down onto a steep slope of ice and
text: rock, the monastery exploding above them... Wayne rolls
text: over, GRABS a rock, looks across to see-
text: Ducard UNCONSCIOUS, SLIDING down the icy slope. His limp
text: form ROTATES, spinning as his body gathers MOMENTUM, rushing
text: towards the EDGE of the CLIFF...
text: Wayne DIVES AFTER HIM, SLIDING HEAD-FIRST down the ice...
text: the cliff closer and closer as Wayne RACES after Ducard...
dialog: 64
dialog: 65
dialog: 66
dialog: 67
dialog: 41.
scene_heading: MERE FEET FROM THE CLIFF EDGE, Wayne GRABS Ducard- raises
text: his free GAUNTLET-CLAD ARM, and SMASHES AT THE ICE, DIGGING
text: IN with the BRONZE SCALLOPS... STOPPING on the edge- Ducard
text: HANGS LIMPLY over a tremendous drop- Wayne STRUGGLES with
text: the dead weight. Wayne PULLS Ducard up onto the ice.
text: BREATHING.
scene_heading: EXT. TINY HAMLET, HIMALAYAS -- DAY 64
text: Wayne CARRIES Ducard down the road.
scene_heading: INT. SHERPAS HUT -- MOMENTS LATER 65
text: Wayne KICKS the door open. The Old Man he saw on his way up
text: the mountain stares back at him. Then motions Wayne to put
text: Ducard down onto some mats. The Old Man wipes blood from
text: Ducards temple. Looks at Wayne, who is moving to the
dialog: door...
speaker_heading: OLD MAN
dialog: I will tell him you saved his life.
text: Wayne stops. Turns. Looks back at Ducard.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Tell him... I have an ailing
dialog: ancestor who needs me.
text: Wayne puts his hands together in formal salute. Bows.
scene_heading: INT. CLIMBERS BAR, BHUTAN -- DAY 66
text: A smoky inn, full of SHERPAS and CLIMBERS. Wayne enters,
text: FILTHY, RAGGED. Conversation CEASES. Everyone STARES.
scene_heading: INT. SAME -- MOMENTS LATER 67
text: Wayne uses a phone at the bar, waiting for an answer-
speaker_heading: ALFRED (0.S.)
dialog: Wayne residence.
text: Wayne SMILES at Alfreds familiar voice.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: Alfred.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 42.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (unflappable)
dialog: Master Wayne. Its been some time.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yes. Yes it has. I need a ride.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And where are we, sir?
text: Wayne glances around.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bhutan, I think.
text: A curious Sherpa nearby NODS at Wayne.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Am I to assume that youre without
dialog: money and passport?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im traveling a bit light, yes.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I believe theres an airstrip at
text: Khatmandu long enough for a G5.
dialog: Make your way there, I1l have the
text: jet down in fifteen hours.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Very good. Oh, and Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes, sir?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bring some painkillers.
scene_heading: 68 INT. PRIVATE JET -- DAWN 68
text: Wayne steps out of the washroom, clean-shaven, fresh
text: tailored clothes. The jet breaks cloud, revealing GOTHAM
text: bathed in glorious SUNRISE. Wayne looks out at the city.
text: Alfred, sleeping opposite, opens an eye.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Have you told anyone Im coming
dialog: home?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 69
dialog: 70
dialog: 71
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 43.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I thought you might like to
text: surprise a few people.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No one can know Im back. Not until
dialog: Im ready. I1l need everything on
dialog: the company- shareholders reports,
dialog: holdings. Everything.
text: Alfred SMILES to himself. Closes his eyes again.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You sound like a man with purpose.
text: Wayne stares at the vast city beneath them as the jet BANKS.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Gotham needs me, Alfred. Gotham
dialog: needs... a symbol.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What symbol, sir?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im not sure. Something for the
dialog: good to rally behind...
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM -- SUNRISE 69
text: MOVING over SPIRES of the city catching GOLD of first light.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (V.0.)
dialog: ...and the criminals to fear.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- NIGHT 70
text: Wayne, cross-legged on the floor, STUDIES a thick report.
text: Circles something, closes it. Draws another from a STACK.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE MANOR -- EVENING 71
text: Alfred makes tea. A television plays: business news.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER
dialog: (over television)
dialog: Lot of interest in new directions
dialog: Wayne Industries has been taking...
text: Alfred looks up: Earle is being interviewed.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 72
dialog: 73
dialog: 74
dialog: 75
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 44.
speaker_heading: INTERVIEWER (CONTD)
dialog: ...couple big defense contracts in
dialog: the bag... as well as rumors that
dialog: the board is petitioning to have
dialog: Bruce Wayne, missing for seven
dialog: years now, declared officially
dialog: dead.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: (smiles thinly)
dialog: Our operating assumption is always
dialog: the hopeful one that Bruce1l
text: resurface sometime soon.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 72
text: Wayne HEARS a CHITTERING. He rises, moving out into the main
dialog: hall...
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 73
text: Wayne STARES: a small shadow SPUTTERS around the ceiling...
speaker_heading: ALFRED (0.S.)
dialog: A blessed bat gain, sir.
text: Wayne turns to find Alfred standing there with a tea
dialog: service.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: They nest somewhere on the grounds.
text: Wayne watches the dark shape FLICKER around the ceiling.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUNDS, WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 74
text: Wayne walks across the gardens to the greenhouse. He wears a
text: long overcoat, a coil of rope over one arm.
scene_heading: INT. GREENHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 75
text: Now derelict. Glass cracked or missing, paint peeled from
text: wrought iron. Wayne stands in the entrance, remembering-
text: INSERT CUT: Rachel, LAUGHING, SPRINTING between the tables.
dialog: 76
dialog: 77
dialog: 78
dialog: 79
dialog: 45.
scene_heading: INT. DISUSED WELL SHAFT -- MOMENTS LATER 76
text: DARKNESS, punctured by LIGHT as BOARDS are YANKED,
text: splintering from the mouth of the well, high above.
text: Wayne LOWERS himself down the shaft, overcoat billowing. He
text: undoes his rope at the bottom. TURNS, finding-
text: The DARK CREVICE between the rocks. Wayne CROUCHES, pushing
text: into the BLACKNESS, crawling through into-
scene_heading: INT. CAVERNS -- CONTINUOUS 77
text: Wayne climbs down a jagged rock crevice. Air blows in his
text: face. The crevice WIDENS into a low-ceilinged chamber. Wayne
text: hears the RUSH of WATER. He crouches, advances through the
text: low chamber. It turns DOWNWARDS, steeper- Wayne carefully
text: slides on his back, LOWERING HIMSELF into...
text: LIMITLESS BLACK. Wayne stands. A ROAR of water now. He
text: REACHES into his coat, pulls out a CHEMICAL TORCH. CRACKS
text: it, throwing LIGHT into...
text: A VAST CAVERN. An underground RIVER, a JAGGED ceiling, far
text: above, which, as Wayne PEERS, starts to MOVE-
text: BATS EXPLODE from the ceiling. THOUSANDS DESCEND,
text: SCREECHING, attracted to the light- Wayne instinctively
text: CROUCHES. But as they SWARM around him terrifyingly...
text: Wayne RISES to his feet amidst a CYCLONE of bats, watching
text: the fluttering blackness with a profound CALM.
dialog: And he knows the symbol he must use.
scene_heading: INT./EXT. ROLLS ROYCE ON GOTHAM STREETS -- MORNING 78
text: Wayne stares at the DECAY. Sadness gives way to anger.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE PLAZA -- LATER 79
text: The Rolls pulls up onto the Plaza in front of Wayne Station.
text: The station is deserted. Derelict. Wayne gets out, staring.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Is it closed?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: They still run a token service out
dialog: of respect for your father.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 80
dialog: 81
dialog: 82
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 46.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (low)
dialog: Respect?
scene_heading: INT. BOARD ROOM, WAYNE TOWER -- CONTINUOUS 80
text: A board meeting in full swing. Earle presiding. He is
text: addressing a portly, distinguished man at the other end.
speaker_heading: This is JUDGE PHELAN.
speaker_heading: EARLE
text: Clearly, Judge Phelan, moving to
dialog: have Bruce declared dead is not
dialog: something that any of us here
dialog: relishes... but as responsible
dialog: managers it falls to us to act on
dialog: behalf of Wayne Industries...
scene_heading: INT. OUTER OFFICE, WAYNE TOWER -- CONTINUOUS 81
text: Wayne walks past the young, beautiful ASSISTANT sat her
dialog: desk.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Morning.
text: The Assistant gets to her feet.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Sir, you cant go in there!
text: Wayne turns to her. Smiles.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yes, I can.
text: The Assistant RECOGNIZES him, stands there, SHOCKED.
scene_heading: INT. BOARD ROOM, WAYNE TOWER -- CONTINUOUS 82
text: As the door OPENS, Earle looks over, annoyed.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Im sorry, can I...?
text: Earle STARES. Dumbstruck. All heads TURN- Wayne smiles.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sorry to barge in, but I was in the
dialog: areas...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 47.
text: SILENCE. Earle gets to his feet, approaching Wayne, STARING.
text: He SHAKES Waynes hand, claps the other on his shoulder.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: My boy! We thought you were gone
dialog: for good.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What can I say? "Reports of my
dialog: death have been greatly
dialog: exaggerated".
text: Nervous chuckles. Judge Phelan stares at Wayne, incredulous.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Can I ask where youve been?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (mischievous )
dialog: You can ask...
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Well, perhaps you11 tell us your
dialog: plans. Are you back to finish
dialog: college?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Actually, I thought Id get to
dialog: grips with what we actually do
dialog: around here. From the ground up-
text: one division at a time.
text: Earle takes this in, nodding.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Any idea where youd like to start?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Applied sciences caught my eye.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Mr.Foxs department. I1l make a
dialog: call. You can start today.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Actually, Ive got a one oclock
dialog: tee-off, and it took me all morning
dialog: to convince the club to honor my
dialog: old membership.
dialog: (grins at Earle)
dialog: Apparently they dont have to meet
dialog: the same high standards as you when
dialog: it comes to declaring someone dead.
dialog: 48.
scene_heading: 83 INT. STAIRCASE, DISTRICT ATTORNEYS OFFICE -- DAY 83
text: Rachel HURRIES down marble stairs to catch Finch.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Mr.Finch.
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: (weary)
dialog: Yes, Miss Dodson?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Mr.Finch, on the Falcone matter-
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: (here we go again)
dialog: The case against Falcone died with
dialog: Chill. We had our shot.
text: They walk out into the parking lot...
scene_heading: 84 EXT. PARKING LOT, COURTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 84
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: That was then- but now hes
dialog: importing drugs, everybody knows
dialog: it, lets take it to Harvey Dent
dialog: and-
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Keep your voice down.
dialog: (quite, sympathetic)
dialog: Look, Rachel, Falcones got Judge
dialog: Phelan and half of City Hall bought
dialog: and paid for. So you got burned on
dialog: Falcone- let it go, weve got
dialog: bigger fish to fry.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: That would make a lot more sense if
dialog: we were doing any frying.
text: Finch, uncomfortable, TURNS. Rachel WATCHES him exit...
scene_heading: 85 INT. ROLLS ROYCE -- CONTINUOUS 85
text: In the back seat, Wayne WATCHES Rachel standing there.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 86
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 49.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Shall I park, sir?
text: Wayne wrestles for a moment...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No, lets go.
text: Alfred pulls out with a touch of disappointment.
scene_heading: INT. APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- DAY 86
text: A massive WAREHOUSE, stacked with crates, odd-shaped under
text: dust covers, lab equipment. LUCIUS FOX, aged 52, leads Wayne
text: through the stacks, speaking in calm, knowledgeable tones.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Environmental applications, defense
dialog: projects, consumer products... all
dialog: prototypes, none if production at
dialog: any level whatsoever.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: None?
text: Fox pauses, turns to Wayne, a wicked gleam in his eye.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What did they tell you this place
dialog: was?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: They didnt tell me anything.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: They told me exactly what it was
dialog: when they sent me here... a dead
dialog: end where I couldnt cause any more
text: trouble for the rest of the board.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You were on the board?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Back when your father ran things.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You knew my father?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Sure. Helped him build his train.
dialog: Beautiful project- routed right
speaker_heading: (MORE)
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 50.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
dialog: into Wayne Tower, along with the
dialog: water and power utilities. Made
dialog: Wayne Tower the unofficial heart of
dialog: Gotham.
text: Fox stops at a tall CRATE. Checks paperwork. Opens the
text: crate: a BODYSUIT- clear silicone over jointed armor.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
text: Here it is: the nomex survival suit
dialog: for advanced infantry. Kevlar
dialog: biweave, reinforced joints...
text: Wayne feels the fabric of the suit.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bullet -proof?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Anything but a straight shot.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Tear-resistant?
text: Fox HACKS at the suit with his pen- it doesnt even mark.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: This sucker1ll stop a knife.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why didnt they put it into
dialog: production?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: The bean counters figured a
dialog: soldiers life wasnt worth the 300
dialog: grand.
text: Fox looks at Wayne. Suspicious.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
dialog: What do you want with it, Mr.Wayne?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I want to borrow it. For
text: spelunking.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: You know, cave-diving.
text: Fox shrugs. Puts the lid back on the crate.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 87
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 51.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You get a lot of gunfire down in
dialog: those caves?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Listen, Id rather Mr.Earle didnt
dialog: know about me borrowing-
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Mr.Wayne, the way I see it...
text: Fox waves his arm, taking in the enormous facility.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
dialog: All this stuff is yours, anyway.
scene_heading: INT. CAVERNS BENEATH WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 87
text: Wayne, high on the cavern wall, in climbing harness, HAMMERS
text: a bracket into the rock securing a line of industrial LAMPS.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Okay! Give it a try.
text: Alfred throws a switch on a portable GENERATOR: the lamps
text: flicker on, dimly lighting the length of one wall. Alfred
text: peers at the DAMP, DINGY surroundings.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, charming.
text: Alfred sees the BATS covering the entire ceiling.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: At least you1l have company.
text: Wayne RAPPELS to the cave floor, looks up to a HIGH corner:
text: CRUMBLING BRICKWORK. Alfred follows his gaze.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: Must be the lowest foundations of
dialog: the Southeast wing.
text: Wayne CLIMBS up: poking through the rock ceiling: the bottom
text: of a wrought-iron SPIRAL STAIRCASE. In the center of the
text: spiral: a dumb-waiter lift, fallen off its track. Wayne
text: grabs the chains of the lift, RATTLES them- sending a wave
text: ECHOING up into the darkness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 88
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 52.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: During the civil war your
dialog: greatgrandfather was involved with
text: the underground railroad. Secretly
dialog: transporting freed slaves to the
dialog: North. I suspect these caverns came
dialog: in handy.
text: Wayne jumps down. Moves to the small river. Follows it where
text: it disappears under rocks. Steps over. Alfred waits. The
text: ROAR of WATER gets louder and the light gets BRIGHTER. Wayne
text: follows the tunnel around a dog leg, emerging...
text: BEHIND THE FACE OF A WATERFALL. Wayne grins, HOPS along
text: slick rocks right up to the beautiful CURTAIN of water.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (awe)
dialog: Alfred, come up here.
text: Alfred is twenty feet behind on the dry rocks.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I can see it very well from here,
dialog: thank-you, sir.
text: Wayne, mesmerized, reaches for water that is liquid light.
scene_heading: INT. UNMARKED POLICE SEDAN -- EVENING 88
text: Gordon, now 46 and a Detective, in the passenger seat. Worn
text: eyes watching his partner, FLASS, 42, glad-hand the owner of
text: the liquor store they are parked outside. Flass squeezes
text: into the driving seat holding a wad of CASH.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Dont spose you want a taste?
text: Gordon looks at Flass, cold. Flass shrugs. Counts his money.
speaker_heading: FLASS (CONTD)
dialog: I keep offering cause who knows,
dialog: maybe one day you1l get wise.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Nothing wise in what you do, Flass.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Yeah? Well, Jimbo, you dont take
dialog: your taste- makes us guys nervous
dialog: you might decide to roll over-
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 53.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (irritated)
dialog: Im no rat, Flass.
dialog: (calmer )
dialog: In a town this bent, whos there to
dialog: rat to, anyway?
text: Flass LAUGHS at this, hits the gas.
scene_heading: 89 EXT. ROOFTOPS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 89
text: Moving in on a rooftop balustrade to discover Wayne, wearing
text: the bodysuit, crouched, watching the police station across
text: the street. He pulls on a black balaclava. CLIMBS through
text: the SHADOWS using Ninja SPIRES on his hands and feet.
scene_heading: 90 EXT. POLICE STATION -- MOMENTS LATER 90
text: Gordon slams the car door. Watches Flass pull away. Weary.
scene_heading: 91 INT. GORDONS OFFICE -- CONTINUOUS 91
text: Gordon SLUMPS into his chair, back to the window. Reaches
text: for the phone- notices a BOOK sitting on his desk: an old,
scene_heading: worn copy of: "PHYLUM PERACOPDA: THE TWILIGHT WORLD OF
dialog: BATS".
text: Gordon frowns at the book, CONFUSED. The light goes OUT.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (0.S.)
dialog: Dont turn around.
text: Gordon FREEZES- Wayne is behind his, pressing a stapler
text: between Gordons shoulder blades as if it were a gun.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ive been watching. Youre a good
dialog: cop. One of the few. What would it
dialog: take to get Falcone?
text: Gordon narrows his eyes, puzzled.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Carmine Falcone?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 92
dialog: 93
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 54.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: He brings in shipments of drugs
dialog: every week, nobody takes him down.
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Hes paid up with the right people.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What would it take?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Leverage on Judge Phelan. And a
text: D.A. brave enough to prosecute.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: Rachel Dodson in the D.A.s office.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Watch for a sign.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Youre just one man?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Now we are two.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Wwe?
text: No response. Gordon turns around. No one. He JUMPS to the
text: window- looks down, looks up: a SHADOW slips onto the roof-
scene_heading: INT. BULLPEN -- CONTINUOUS 92
text: Gordon RACES across the bullpen, drawing his gun, hits the
text: stairwell- two UNIFORMS see him go, run after him.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP -- CONTINUOUS 93
text: Wayne moves to the edge of the roof- the gap is TOO BIG- he
text: TURNS BACK- the DOOR SMASHES open: Gordon GUN RAISED.
speaker_heading: GORDON
speaker_heading: FREEZE!
text: Wayne RACES for the GAP- LEAPS... DROPS FAST... misses THE
text: TOP STORY- GRABS the balcony below... it BREAKS AWAY- DROPS
text: him onto the one below. Winded, Wayne CLIMBS onto the wall.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 94
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2)
dialog: 55.
text: From the other roof, Gordon watches Wayne melt into the
text: shadows. The Uniforms arrive either side.
speaker_heading: UNIFORM 1
dialog: The hell was that?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (dismissive)
dialog: Some nut.
text: But Gordons expression is less certain.
scene_heading: INT. EARLES OFFICE, WAYNE TOWER -- DAY
dialog: 94
text: Earle sits at his desk conferring with two board members.
speaker_heading: BOARD MEMBER
dialog: Is he taking over?
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Not yet. I checked the trust, and
text: Bruce cant assume control until
text: his thirtieth birthday.
dialog: (presses intercom)
dialog: Jessica, wheres that coffee?
speaker_heading: BOARD MEMBER
dialog: But thats in three months.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: We1l have to move fast.
speaker_heading: BOARD MEMBER 2
dialog: To do what?
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: An IPO. Theres nothing in Bruces
dialog: trust to stop us taking the company
dialog: public... well have an offering...
speaker_heading: BOARD MEMBER
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: And Bruce will become just another
dialog: board member.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Precisely. We cant have some clown
dialog: prince running things.
dialog: (presses intercom)
dialog: Jessica?
text: No answer. Earle steps to the door and opens it. His
text: assistant is GONE. So is the receptionist.
dialog: 95
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP, WAYNE TOWER -- MOMENTS LATER 95
text: The SWISH-CLICK of a Titleist rocketing off the roof and out
text: towards Gotham River. Wayne stands behind the Beautiful
text: Assistant, hand on her hip, adjusting her grip on a gold
text: club. Another YOUNG WOMAN watches, leaning on a driver.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Keep your elbows in...
speaker_heading: EARLE (0.S.)
dialog: Ladies?
text: They turn. Earle is standing there.
speaker_heading: JESSICA
dialog: Sorry, Mr.Earle, Mr.Wayne insisted
dialog: that all junior executives need to
dialog: know how to play golf.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Junior Executive? Whos answering
dialog: the phones?
text: Wayne smiles pleasantly at Earle.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: This is Wayne Industries, Mr.Earle-
dialog: Im sure they1l call back.
text: Wayne unwraps himself from Jessica and approaches Earle.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONTD)
dialog: (conspiratorial)
dialog: I thought a few promotions might be
dialog: good karma forgetting my new job.
text: Earle smiles patiently.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Of course, youre not actually
dialog: starting just yet, Bruce. Not until
dialog: your birthday.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (grins)
dialog: Three months time- Im having a
dialog: huge blowout and I expect everyone
dialog: to be there.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: With bells on. How are things down
dialog: at Applied Sciences?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 57.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Great- theres some cool stuff down
text: there. Although that Mr.Fox goes on
dialog: a bit once you get him talking.
text: Earle takes Wayne by the elbow, walking him away.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Since youre here, there is a
dialog: business matter that I wanted to
dialog: make you aware of...
text: Wayne assumes a pose of seriousness.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Business... sure.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Weve been thinking for some time
dialog: about offering shares... I think
dialog: the time is right.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Offering shares?
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Its just a way of raising capital
dialog: for growth... its important to me
dialog: that the company be in great shape
dialog: when you take over. Consider it my
dialog: legacy.
text: Wayne nods.
speaker_heading: EARLE (CONTD)
dialog: Well, I guess Id better go hire a
dialog: new secretary and receptionist...
text: Earle head to the door. Wayne smiles, turns back to Jessica.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Right, whos turn is it?
scene_heading: 96 EXT. FALCONES BASEMENT CLUB, DOCK AREA -- NIGHT 96
text: Judge Phelan exits the club, a GIRL on his arm.
speaker_heading: BOUNCER
text: Night, Judge Phelan.
text: Phelan turns, giddy with drink, puts his finger to his lips.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 97
dialog: 98
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 58.
speaker_heading: PHELAN
dialog: Shhhhh.
text: The Girl giggles. Phelan guides her into a waiting limo. A
text: STREET PERSON comes over to the rear windows of the car
text: knocking. The DRIVER gets out.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Get lost!
text: The Driver KICKS the Street Person away from the limo. A
text: Homeless Man warming by a fire starts shouting. It is the
text: Homeless Man that Bruce gave his coat to years before. The
text: coat is worn but recognizable.
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: Leave him alone! Let him be!
text: The limo moves off. Close on the Street Person watching it
text: leave. IT IS BRUCE. He glances down at a tiny CAMERA in his
text: lap. Smiles at the screen: Phelan and the Girl.
scene_heading: INT. BAT CAVE -- DAY 97
text: Wayne places two BRONZE GAUNTLETS on a trestle table. FIRES
text: up a paint sprayer. Starts coating them matte BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. SAME -- LATER 98
text: Wayne is showing Alfred DIAGRAMS. We catch only GLIMPSES.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: If we order the main part of
dialog: this...
dialog: (points)
dialog: ...cowl from Singapore-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Via a shell corporation.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Indeed. Then quite separately,
dialog: place an order through a Chinese
dialog: manufacturer for these-
text: Alfred points at a diagram which looks like a pair of HORNS.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Put it together ourselves.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 99
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 59.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Precisely. Of course, they1ll have
dialog: to be large orders to avoid
dialog: suspicion.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How large?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Say, ten thousand.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Least we1ll have spares.
scene_heading: INT. APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- MORNING 99
text: Fox, at his desk, watches Wayne approaching.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Whats it today? More "spelunking"?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sper-lunking. And no, today its
dialog: base-jumping.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Base-jumping? What, like
dialog: parachuting?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I need some kind of lightweight
dialog: grappling hook...
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: For what?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Base jumpings illegal-you cant
dialog: just take the elevator.
text: Fox shakes his head at Wayne. Gets to his feet. They sit.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Weve got suction pads, grapples...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Any good?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 100
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 60.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Nope. But this things pretty neat.
text: Fox pulls out a box. Inside: a bronze GRAPPLING GUN and
speaker_heading: HARNESS.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
text: Pneumatic. Magnetic grapple.
text: Monofilament tested to 350 pounds.
text: Wayne feels the weight. It is light. Strong. He picks up the
text: HARNESS that goes with it. Shoulder straps with a wide,
text: hi-tech BELT. Wayne shoves the back end of the gun into the
text: belt buckle- it CLICKS into place.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Too expensive for the army?
text: Fox takes it back from Wayne. Sardonic.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Guess they never thought about
dialog: marketing to the billionaire
text: base-jumping, spelunking market.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Look, Mr.Fox, if youre
dialog: uncomfortable-
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Mr.Wayne, if you dont tell me what
dialog: youre really doing, then when I
dialog: get asked... I dont have to lie.
dialog: But dont treat me like an idiot.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Fair enough.
text: Fox looks at Wayne. Thinking.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Come on, I1l show you something.
scene_heading: INT. LOADING DOCK, APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- LATER 100
text: Fox hands Wayne a sheet of black fabric.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Notice anything?
text: Wayne examines it, shrugs. Fox puts on a GLOVE.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 101
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 61.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
dialog: Memory fabric- dual layer polymers
dialog: with variable alignment molecules.
dialog: Flexible ordinarily, but put a
dialog: current through it...
text: Fox GRABS the fabric- which instantly POPS into the RIGID
text: shape of a small one-man TENT. Wayne raises his eyebrows.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONTD)
text: ...the molecules align and become
text: rigid. Wayne pushes on the tent,
text: feeling its strength, fascinated.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What kind of shapes can you make? Fox releases the tent,
text: which instantly COLLAPSES.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: It could be tailored to any
dialog: structure based on a rigid
dialog: skeleton.
text: Wayne lifts the black fabric, FLICKING it in a WHIPPING
text: motion. Thinking. Then he sees something. Some kind of
text: vehicle, covered by a tarp. HUGE TIRES visible.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Whats that?
text: Fox, a twinkle in his eye, rolls up the memory fabric.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: The Tumbler? Oh, you wouldnt be
dialog: interested in that.
text: Wayne shoots Fox a look, and we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: P.0O.V.: RACING ALONG, INCHES ABOVE A TEST TRACKINT. TUMBLER
scene_heading: ON TEST TRACK -- MOMENTS LATER 101
text: Wayne pilots using aircraft-like control sticks. Fox, in the
text: passenger seat, hangs on as Wayne PUSHES the vehicle...
text: The Tumbler SHOOTS PAST: LOW and WIDE, a cross between a
text: Lamborghini Countach and a Humvee. Sandy camouflage,
text: stealthangled panelling and variable-angle flaps across the
dialog: back.
text: Fox SHOUTS over the noise of the engine.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 102
dialog: 103
dialog: 104
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 62.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: She was built as a bridging
dialog: vehicle!
dialog: You hit that button-
dialog: (Wayne reaches)
dialog: NO, NOT NOW!!
dialog: (Wayne recoils)
text: It boosts her into a rampless jump!
text: In combat, two of them jump a river
dialog: towing cables, then you run a
dialog: bailey bridge across! Damn bridge
dialog: never worked- but this baby works
dialog: fine!
text: Wayne inspects the cockpit: a forward-slung "gunners"
text: driving position between their legs, video screens,
text: electronic controls, windows with HEADS-UP DISPLAY. Wayne
text: ACCELERATES...
text: The Tumbler TEARS down the straightaway, SKIDS to a HALT.
scene_heading: INT. TUMBLER -- CONTINUOUS 102
text: Fox JOLTS with the stop. Turns to Wayne, a little green.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What do you think?
text: Wayne turns to Fox with a slight smile.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Does it come in black?
scene_heading: INT. BAT CAVE -- DAY 103
text: Wayne takes the hi-tech harness for the grapple and CUTS OFF
text: the shoulder straps, leaving a BELT WITH SLIDING
scene_heading: ATTACHMENTS.
scene_heading: INT. SAME -- LATER 104
text: Wayne lifts a GLOVED hand, metal contacts on the fingertips.
text: With his other hand, he picks up a FABRIC GLOVE, RIBBONS
text: dangling from each finger. He thrusts the gloved hand into
text: the fabric glove- the ribbons SHOOT OUT- RIGID FINGER
text: EXTENSIONS like the SKELETON of a BATS WING. Wayne FANS the
text: PROJECTIONS, testing.
dialog: 105
dialog: 106
dialog: 63.
scene_heading: INT. BAT CAVE -- LATER 105
text: Close on: the COWL. Black, with a slight GRAPHITE sheen.
text: Dramatic, ICONIC even without its ears.
text: A BASEBALL BAT SMASHES into the crown, CRACKING it in two.
text: Alfred picks the pieces off the table, FROWNING.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Problems with the graphite mixture,
dialog: apparently. The next ten thousand
dialog: will be up to specifications.
text: Wayne looks up from adjusting a servo-mounted microphone.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: At least they gave us a discount.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Quite. In the meantime, might I
dialog: suggest, sir, that you try to avoid
dialog: landing on your head?
text: Wayne shoots Alfred a look. Then fits the microphone into
text: the horn-shaped "ear" from the cowl.
scene_heading: INT. SAME -- LATER 106
text: Wayne GRINDS METAL at a lathe. Alfred approaches with a
text: thermos. Wayne stops grinding, BLOWS on his handiwork...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Why the design, Master Wayne?
text: Alfred indicates the steel carved into a BATS WING.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: A man, however strong, however
dialog: skilled, is just flesh and blood. I
dialog: need to be more than a man. I need
dialog: to be a symbol.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And why the symbol of the bat?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bats frighten me.
dialog: (slight smile)
dialog: And its time my enemies shared my
dialog: dread.
text: Wayne tilts the crude BATARANG, watching light dance across
text: the brushed steel. He THROWS it WHISTLING into darkness...
dialog: 107
dialog: 108
dialog: 64.
scene_heading: INT. FALCONES CLUB, DOCK AREA -- NIGHT 107
text: Judge Phelan sits sandwiched between two GIRLS, drink and
text: cigar in hand. He looks up.
speaker_heading: PHELAN
dialog: Carmine! Where are you going?
text: Falcone is putting his coat on.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Duty calls. You have yourself a
dialog: good time, Judge.
text: Falcone turns to the CLUB MANAGER. Leans in.
speaker_heading: FALCONE (CONTD)
dialog: If hes too cheap to get a hotel,
dialog: at least make him take his car
text: around to the alley.
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: No class.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 108
text: Down in the stacks, THUGS unload BOXES an open container.
text: HEADLIGHTS light them up- everyone FREEZES. A sedan pulls
text: up. FLASS emerges. Approaches one of the thugs holding a
text: box. OPENS it, YANKS out a STUFFED TOY.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Cute.
text: Flass RIPS open the toy, pulls a plastic PACKAGE from
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: FLASS (CONTD)
dialog: (mock surprise)
dialog: Oh? What have we here?
text: Nobody reacts. Flass hands the toy back to the Thug.
speaker_heading: FLASS (CONTD)
dialog: Carry on, gents.
text: Flass heads inside a massive warehouse to a set of offices.
dialog: 109
dialog: 110
dialog: 111
dialog: 112
dialog: 65.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE, DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 109
text: Flass enters. Falcone sits at the desk.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: You believe this hump, Flass?
text: He indicates a thin man opposite. Flass sits.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Problem?
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Crane heres making insinuations.
text: The thin man, CRANE, leans forward. A cold presence.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Insinuations? Well, let me be
dialog: clearer- you stepped on the last
dialog: shipment before you delivered it to
dialog: me. You cut it with baby powder,
dialog: and rendered it useless for my
text: purposes. Falcone stares at the
text: slight man, incredulous.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: (furious)
dialog: Flass, tell this guy what happens
dialog: to people who talk to me this way.
scene_heading: EXT. FALCONES CLUB, DOCK AREA -- CONTINUOUS 110
text: Judge Phelan stumbles out of the club with the GIRLS. They
text: pile into the waiting limo. The Club Manager gestures to the
text: Driver to pull around into the alley.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY, DOCK AREA -- CONTINUOUS 111
text: The Limo idles in the alley.
scene_heading: INT. LIMO -- CONTINUOUS 112
text: The Driver picks his ear. The partition is closed. The
text: Driver examines his finger...
text: WHAM!!! A BLACK SHAPE LANDS ON THE HOOD- the Drivers eyes
dialog: go wide as-
text: SMASH! !!- a BLACK-GLOVED FIST SHATTERS THE WINDSCREEN and
dialog: GRABS the Drivers neck...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 113
dialog: 114
dialog: 115
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 66.
text: IN THE BACK: Phelan sits BOLT UPRIGHT. The girls look
text: around, ALARMED.
scene_heading: THE PARTITION SLOWLY LOWERS, REVEALING:
speaker_heading: BATMAN.
text: Crouched like a dark animal on the hood- the Girls SCREAM.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY -- CONTINUOUS 113
text: The Homeless Man looks up from his brazier, curious. He sees
text: a dark shape on the hood of a limo, a LONG BLACK CLOAK
text: BILLOWING out behind it... screams echo through the alley...
scene_heading: INT. LIMO -- CONTINUOUS 114
text: Phelan scrambles back in his seat, whimpering...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You have eaten well... As Gotham
dialog: has starved.
text: Batmans eyes stare out of the black cowl at Phelan.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: This changes tonight.
text: Batman SHOOTS UP OFF the hood, banging onto the roof-
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY -- CONTINUOUS 115
text: The Homeless Man STARES OPEN-MOUTHED at Batman standing,
text: ICONIC, on the roof of the limo, cloak billowing... Batman
text: turns his head towards the Homeless Man-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nice coat.
text: -and FLIES UP from the limo, DISAPPEARING into the shadows
dialog: high above...
text: The Homeless Man looks down at his coat, then back up to the
dialog: shadows...
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: (small)
dialog: Thanks.
dialog: 116
dialog: 117
dialog: 118
dialog: 67.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE, DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 116
text: Crane looks at Falcone, matter-of-fact.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Im aware that youre not
dialog: intimidated by me, Mr.Falcone. But
dialog: you know who were working for...
dialog: and when he gets here I dont think
dialog: hes going to want to hear that
dialog: youve been endangering our
dialog: operation just to filch a few
dialog: dollars from your dealers.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Hes coming to Gotham?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Soon. This is our last shipment.
text: Falcone shifts, SUDDENLY UNEASY.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 117
text: A THUG hands a box to a SECOND THUG, who walks away along
text: the corridor of containers. The first Thug turns back to the
text: darkness of the open container, reaches in-
text: HE IS YANKED INTO THE DARKNESS WITH AN ECHOING CRY-
text: Second Thug TURNS, stares uneasily down the deserved
text: corridor to the BLACK MOUTH of the open container...
speaker_heading: SECOND THUG
dialog: Steiss?
text: No reply. He puts down his box. Draws his gun. A THIRD THUG
text: comes around the corner.
speaker_heading: THIRD THUG
dialog: Come on, we gotta-
text: He sees the Second Thugs gun. Draws his own. They move
text: cautiously towards the open container...
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 118
text: The Thugs peer into the blackness of the open container -
dialog: 119
dialog: 120
dialog: 68.
text: Behind them, a LAMP hanging above the corridor SHATTERS, the
text: Thugs turn, startled, to see another lamp shatter and go
text: dark- them another and another, DARKNESS ADVANCING TOWARDS
dialog: THEM...
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE, DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 119
text: Falcone lifts his hands in a gesture of peace.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Theres no need to argue- you can
dialog: just test the stuff here and now.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Thats why I came.
text: Flass tosses the package onto the desk.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 120
text: As the closest lamp SHATTERS, a GLINT of metal DROPS to the
text: ground... the Second Thug bends, picks it up, STARING;
text: A BAT-SHAPED brushed steel plate. The Second Thug looks up,
text: confused, but the Third Thug is STARING above him.
speaker_heading: SECOND THUG
dialog: What?
text: The Second Thug looks up himself: a DARK SHAPE HANGING from
text: a CRANE directly above him...
text: A GIANT BAT, WINGS FOLDED, head pointed towards the ground.
speaker_heading: SECOND THUG (CONTD)
dialog: What the hell-
text: The Bat DROPS- wings WHIP OUT, RIGID- CATCH the air-
text: FLIPPING the shape downwards- ENVELOPING THE SECOND THUG IN
text: DARKNESS- the Third Thug BOLTS, RACING between containers,
speaker_heading: arms PUMPING-
text: He SPRINTS headlong down the narrow corridor, SKIDS around a
dialog: corner, RACES towards-
text: BLACKNESS SIDESWIPES THE THIRD THUG, SPINNING HIM OFF HIS
text: FEET, WHIPPING HIM INTO DARKNESS WITH A PIERCING SCREAM...
speaker_heading: 1214
dialog: 122
dialog: 123
dialog: 124
dialog: 125
dialog: 69.
scene_heading: EXT. TRUCK OUTSIDE THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 1214
text: Other Thugs REACT to the SCREAM...
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE, DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 122
text: Falcone and Crane hear the scream. Flass JUMPS up.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 123
text: Thugs, guns drawn, advance into the stacks...
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 124
text: A Fourth Thug WHIPS around a corner to see a JUMPY THUG
text: covering the other end of the corridor...
text: The Fourth Thug nods, steps backwards. MOVEMENT in the
text: shadow behind him... BATMAN IS ALREADY IN FRAME- his arm
text: FLASHES forward with his CLOAK, WRAPS the Thugs neck, YANKS
text: him backwards into the shadows..
text: Jumpy Thug sees the other Thug DISAPPEAR... he OPENS FIRE,
text: STROBING the stacks, revealing INDISTINCT GLIMPSES of
speaker_heading: MOVEMENT.
text: ELSEWHERE IN THE STACKS: Thugs REACT to the gunfire...
text: Flass stands outside the stacks, gun drawn, listening. He
text: moves back into the office.
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE, DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 125
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: What the hells going on?!
text: Flass looks at Falcone.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Youve got a problem out there.
text: Falcone reaches behind the desk, PULLS out a SHOTGUN.
dialog: 126
dialog: 127
dialog: 128
dialog: 70.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 126
text: Jumpy Thug FIRES blindly at STROBING SHADOWS- GLIMPSES of a
text: DARK CLOAKED FIGURE moving from SHADOW TO SHADOW. Jumpy Thug
text: empties the clip. FUMBLES for another as he looks out into
dialog: the darkness.
speaker_heading: JUMPY THUG
dialog: WHERE ARE YOU?!!!
text: A whispered word at his ear:
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Here.
text: BATMANS FACE, UPSIDE DOWN, at the Thugs shoulder- Jumpy
text: Thug SCREAMS as he is ENGULFED by DARKNESS-
scene_heading: EXT. OUTSIDE THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 127
text: Flass scuttles over to his car. Crane pauses, listening to
text: the shouts and gunfire. Then moves off into the night.
scene_heading: EXT. THE STACKS -- CONTINUOUS 128
text: Falcone advances through the stacks, shotgun in hand. He
text: rounds a corner to find FIVE THUGS, various weapons in hand,
text: in a loose defensive ring, peering out into the darkness...
text: A SHADOW DROPS into the center of their ring-
text: Thugs TURN, SHOUTING, one SWINGS a CHAIN, another a KNIFE-
text: -Batman DUCKS the chain- SWEEP-KICKS the knife-wielder to
text: the ground. Chain SWINGS again...
text: Batman JUMPS up, one leg LOW to let the CHAIN WRAP around
text: his ANKLE- Batman KICKS his leg sideways RIPPING the chain
text: from its owner, then HEAD BUTTING him down -
text: Batman SPINS his CHAIN-WRAPPED LEG in a ROUNDHOUSE KICK,
text: WHIPPING THREE THUGS behind him in the fade with the CHAIN.
text: All three go DOWN. The rest are unconscious or gone.
text: Batman STANDS there, long cape BILLOWING out to one side.
text: The chain SLIDES from his leg. Falcone is behind him,
text: SHOTGUN aimed dead at Batmans head.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: What in Gods name are you?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 129
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 71.
text: Batman opens his hand, revealing TWO SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES.
text: Then TURNS, billowing cape WRAPPING around him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Im Batman.
text: Falcone pulls the trigger. CLICK.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM, RACHELS APARTMENT -- LATER 129
text: Rachel TOSSES, trying to sleep, eyes shut.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: Rachel Dodson.
text: Rachel bolts upright, GRASPING at her bedside table.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Whos there?!!
text: She pulls out a TASER- PEERS into the shadows: Silhouetted
text: by the window- a dark, cloaked figure. Batman.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Take one step, I drop you!
text: Batman moves his arm- something DROPS onto Rachels bed: a
text: FILE, spilling PHOTOS. She FLINCHES. GLANCES DOWN: photos of
text: Phelan and the girl in the limo.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: What the hell is this?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Leverage.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What do I need leverage for?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: To get things moving.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Who are you?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Someone like you. Someone who1ll
dialog: stand against the corruption.
text: Rachel reaches for the lamp, her eyes off the window for the
text: INSTANT it takes to ILLUMINATE the room, revealing-
dialog: No one.
dialog: 130
dialog: 131
dialog: 72.
scene_heading: EXT. DOCKS -- CONTINUOUS 130
text: Gordon approaches, coffee in hand: TIED-UP THUGS sit against
text: the container full of DRUGS. UNIFORMS hold back a line of
text: PRESS, who snap away at the surreal scene. Gordon crouches
text: to look at the Thugs, curious.
speaker_heading: UNIFORMED COP (0.S.)
dialog: Falcones men?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Does it matter? We1l never tie him
dialog: to it, anyway.
speaker_heading: UNIFORMED COP (0.S.)
dialog: I wouldnt be too sure of that.
text: Gordon looks up. The uniformed Cop is POINTING. At a HARBOR
text: LIGHT trained on the heavens. Gordon RISES, walks towards
text: it. Two Cops stand there, STARING:
text: Falcone is STRAPPED to the LIGHT, UNCONSCIOUS, arms spread.
text: Coat RIPPED, hanging from his arms in a STRANGE PATTERN.
speaker_heading: CoP 1
dialog: Th hell is that? Looks like...
text: Gordon follows their gaze up to where the BEAM of light CATS
text: FALCONES SHADOW onto the CLOUDS.
speaker_heading: COP 2
text: Like a bat.
text: Gordon stares at the projection. It is a BAT SYMBOL.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Cut him down.
text: Gordon moves away, THINKING. Something catches his eye: a
text: block away. Halfway up a building. A BLACK FLAG blowing in
text: the wind... Not a flag.. a DARK FIGURE, wearing a CAPE,
text: sitting on a LEDGE... BATMAN. WATCHING.
scene_heading: INT. FINCHS OFFICE -- MORNING 131
text: Rachel TOSSES a newspaper onto Finchs desk, BEAMING. The
text: front page: a huge photo of Falcone strapped to the light.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: No way to bury it now.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 132
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 73.
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: Maybe so, but theres Judge Phelan-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Ive got Phelan covered.
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: And this "bat" theyre babbling
dialog: about.
text: Rachel breaks eye contact for an instant, UNCOMFORTABLE.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Even if these guys1l swear in
text: court to being thrashed by a giant
dialog: bat... we have Falcone at the
dialog: scene- drugs, prints, cargo
dialog: manifest- everything.
text: Finch considers. Grins.
speaker_heading: FINCH
dialog: Damn right. Lets get frying.
scene_heading: INT. BULLPEN, POLICE HEADQUARTERS -- MORNING 132
text: Loeb addresses CAPTAINS, SERGEANTS, LIEUTENANTS. Gordon at
text: the back. Loeb HOLDS up the PAPER, SMACKS the front page.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: Unacceptable. I dont care if its
dialog: rival gangs, Guardian Angels or the
dialog: goddamn Salvation Army- get them
text: off the street, and off the front
dialog: page.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN SIMPSON
dialog: They say it was one guy... or
dialog: thing.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: Dipping into their own supply- it
dialog: was some asshole in a costume.
dialog: (the room chuckles)
dialog: If its one guy, that1ll make it a
dialog: lot easier for you, wont it?
text: Gordon RAISES his hand. Loeb NODS, cautious.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: This guy did deliver us one of the
dialog: citys biggest crime lords.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 133
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 74,
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: (glares)
dialog: No one takes the law into their own
dialog: hands in my city, understand?
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM, WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 133
text: Alfred opens the curtains. Wayne WAKES, squinting.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (groggy)
text: Bats are nocturnal.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Bats, maybe... but even for
text: billionaire playboys, 3 oclock is
dialog: pushing it. The price of leading a
dialog: double life, I fear.
text: Alfred PUTS down a tray: water, fruit, newspaper.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: Your theatrics made an impression.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Theatricality and deception are
dialog: powerful weapons, Alfred. Its a
dialog: start.
text: Wayne glances at the paper. Gets out of bed, bare-chested.
text: Alfred sees BRUISES across his torso and arms.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: If those are to be the first of
dialog: many injuries... it would be wise
dialog: to find a suitable excuse. Polo,
dialog: for instance.
text: Wayne throws Alfred a look.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im not learning polo, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Strange injuries, a nonexistent
dialog: social life... these things beg the
dialog: question of what, exactly, Bruce
dialog: Wayne does with his time. And his
dialog: money.
dialog: Wayne considers this.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 75.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What does someone like me do?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Drive sports cars, date movie
dialog: stars... Buy things that arent for
dialog: sale.
text: Wayne looks at Alfred. Nods. DOWNS the water, stands
text: straight, feet together- FALLS FORWARD to the floor- into
text: his dizzyingly fast push-ups. Alfred watches. Concerned.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: Who knows, Master Wayne- if you
dialog: start pretending to have fun, you
dialog: might even have a little by
dialog: accident.
scene_heading: 134 INT. COUNTY JAIL, RECEIVING -- DAY 134
text: Crane, briefcase in hand, is BUZZED through thick steel and
text: glass doors and met inside by a PRISON OFFICIAL. They walk.
speaker_heading: PRISON OFFICIAL
dialog: Dr.Crane, thanks for coming down...
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Not at all. So he cut his wrists?
speaker_heading: PRISON OFFICIAL
dialog: Probably looking for an insanity
dialog: plea, but if anything happened...
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Of course, better safe than sorry.
scene_heading: 135 INT. INTERVIEW ROOM, COUNTY JAIL -- CONTINUOUS 135
text: Crane enters. Falcone sits at a table, wrist bandaged. Crane
text: places his briefcase on the table. Falcone smiles.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Doctor Crane, its all too much,
dialog: the walls are closing in, blah,
dialog: blah, blah. Couple more days of
dialog: this food, it1l be true.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 76.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: We got a lot to talk about.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Such as?
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Such as, how youre gonna convince
dialog: me to keep my mouth shut.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: About what? You dont know
dialog: anything.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: I know you wouldnt want the cops
text: taking a closer look at the drugs
dialog: they seized.
text: Crane REACTS to this. Falcone SMILES, enjoying the reaction.
speaker_heading: FALCONE (CONTD)
dialog: I know about your experiments on
dialog: the inmates at your nuthouse...
dialog: (off look)
dialog: I dont get into business with
dialog: someone without finding out their
dialog: dirty secrets. Those goons you
dialog: hired.. I own the muscle in this
dialog: town.
text: Falcone leans forward. Looks Crane in the eye.
speaker_heading: FALCONE (CONTD)
dialog: So what have I been bringing in for
dialog: you hidden in my drugs, Crane?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: If he wanted you to know hed have
dialog: told you himself.
text: Falcone shifts slightly.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Ive been smuggling your stuff in
dialog: for months, so whatever hes got
dialog: planned, its big. And I want it.
text: Crane studies Falcone. Considering. Sighs.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: I already know what hell say...
dialog: that we should kill you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 77.
text: Falcone leans forward, glaring at Crane with contempt.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Even he cant touch me in here. Not
dialog: in my town.
text: Crane SHRUGS. Leans forward. Pops the locks on his
text: briefcase. Smiles at Falcone.
text: Crane reaches into his briefcase. Inside is a BREATHING
text: APPARATUS attached to a small BURLAP SACK MASK.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Would you like to see my mask?
text: He pulls the mask out of the case. Holds it up.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: I use it in my experiments.
dialog: Probably not very frightening to a
dialog: guy like you. But those crazies...
text: Falcone stares at Crane, uneasy. Crane puts on the mask. It
text: is a sack with eye holes and twine stitching for a mouth.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: ...they cant stand it...
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: When did the nut take over the
dialog: asylum-
text: WHUMP- a cloud of white SMOKE shoots out of Cranes
text: briefcase. Falcone pushes his chair back, COUGHING,
dialog: surprised.
speaker_heading: CRANE
text: They scream and cry...
text: Falcone looks up at Crane in his mask-
text: Through Falcones eyes: tiny LIZARD TONGUES FLICK out of the
text: holes in Cranes mask.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: ...much as youre doing now.
text: Crane TOWERS over Falcone, FLAMING EYES and FLAMING MOUTH...
text: Falcone SCREAMS.
dialog: 136
dialog: 137
dialog: 138
dialog: 78.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE INTERVIEW ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER 136
text: Crane emerges with his briefcase. The Prison Official hovers
text: outside. SCREAMS ECHO from inside the room.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Oh, hes not faking. Not that one.
text: The Prison Official nods gravely. Crane leans in.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: I1l talk to the Judge, see if I
dialog: can get him moved to the secure
dialog: wing at Arkham. I cant treat him
dialog: here.
scene_heading: EXT. ARCTIC OCEAN -- DAY 137
text: A COAST GUARD HELICOPTER touches down on the back of a
text: heavily damaged DESERTED CARGO SHIP. Two COAST GUARDSMEN
text: with FLASHLIGHTS jump onto the deck of the ship to take a
text: look around. BAFFLED. The deck is lined with HOLES.
text: The Coast Guardsman shines his light into a MASSIVE HOLE.
scene_heading: INT. EARLES OFFICE, WAYNE INDUSTRIES -- AFTERNOON 138
text: Earle is at his desk. A EXECUTIVE walks in, TROUBLED.
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
dialog: We have a situation.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: What kind of situation?
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
dialog: Coast guard picked up one of our
text: cargo ships last night. Heavily
dialog: damaged. Crew missing, probably
dialog: ead.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: What happened?
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
dialog: Ship was carrying a prototype
text: weapon. A microwave emitter...
dialog: 139
dialog: 140
dialog: 141
dialog: 142
dialog: 79.
scene_heading: EXT. AIRBASE -- MORNING (FLASHBACK) 139
text: ARMY BRASS and SCIENTISTS waiting for a demonstration... an
text: industrial MACHINE the size of a small van sits on the
text: ground a hundred feet from a WATER TOWER...
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE (V.0.)
dialog: Its designed for desert warfare-
dialog: it uses focused microwaves to
dialog: vaporize the enemys water
dialog: supply...
text: The Scientists and Brass don goggles. Fire up the machine...
text: the water tower starts SHAKING... then EXPLODES in a CLOUD
text: OF STEAM that drifts towards the observers like FOG.
scene_heading: INT. EARLES OFFICE, WAYNE INDUSTRIES -- CONTINUOUS 140
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
text: It looks like someone fired it up
dialog: at sea- judging from the damage to
dialog: the ship and cargo.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: What about the weapon?
text: The Executive shifts, uneasy.
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
text: Its missing.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL RESTAURANT, DOWNTOWN GOTHAM -- EVENING 141
text: A BUGATI VEYRON (looks, and costs, a million) pulls up to
text: the valet station. Wayne emerges, impeccably tailored, from
text: the driver side. The VALETS scramble to the passenger side.
text: Open the door to find TWO BLONDES, one on the others lap.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL RESTAURANT -- CONTINUOUS 142
text: Tables around a decorative infinity pool. Earle and his
text: GUESTS at a table. Earle sees Wayne enter with the Blondes.
text: He sighs. Then waves.
dialog: 143
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: EXT. SAME -- LATER 143
text: The table is littered with bottles and empty plates.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: At least hes getting something
dialog: done.
speaker_heading: MALE GUEST
dialog: Bruce, help me out here.
text: Wayne turns from the Blondes. They stand up and walk over to
text: the pool. Wayne smiles, turns to the Female Guest.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: A guy who dresses up like a bat
dialog: clearly has issues.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: But he put Falcone behind bars-
speaker_heading: MALE GUEST
dialog: And now the cops are trying to
dialog: bring him in, so what does that
dialog: tell you?
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: Theyre jealous?
text: Wayne watches as, behind them, one of the Blondes slips off
text: her dress and lowers herself into the pool... the other one,
text: giggling, follows her lead.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If hes so benevolent why does he
dialog: hide his face?
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: Maybe hes protecting the people he
dialog: cares about from reprisals.
text: Wayne nods, considering. The MAITRE D slides up, annoyed.
speaker_heading: MAITRE D
dialog: Sir, the pool is for decoration,
dialog: and your friends do not have swim
dialog: wear.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Well, theyre European.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 144
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 81.
speaker_heading: MAITRE D
dialog: Im going to have to ask you to
dialog: leave.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (turns to Earle)
dialog: Mr.Earle, Im buying this hotel.
dialog: Will you please broker a deal?
text: Earle nods. Patiently.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONTD)
dialog: (turns to Maitre D)
dialog: I think we should make some new
dialog: rules for the pool area, dont you?
text: The Maitre D stares at Wayne. Dumbstruck.
speaker_heading: BLONDES (0.S.)
dialog: Bruce!
text: The Blondes beckon Wayne. He comes to the edge of the pool.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ladies?
text: They SPLASH him. Earle turns away, shaking his head. Behind
text: him, out of focus, Wayne is PULLED into the pool.
scene_heading: EXT. HOTEL -- LATER 144
text: Wayne and the Blondes, wet hair, in white HOTEL ROBES,
text: waiting. The Valet pulls up in the Bugati.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (0.S.)
dialog: Bruce?
text: Wayne turns. Rachel is standing there, dressed for dinner.
text: Stunning.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel.
speaker_heading: BLONDES
dialog: (from car)
dialog: Come on, Bruce. We have some more
dialog: hotels we want you to buy.
text: Rachel glances at the Blondes. Then back to Wayne.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 145
dialog: 146
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 82.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Id heard you were back.
dialog: (Wayne nods)
dialog: Where were you?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Oh, kind of all over, you know.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (tense)
dialog: No, Bruce, I dont. And neither did
dialog: a lot of people. People who thought
dialog: you were probably dead.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You didnt?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I never quite gave up on you.
text: Wayne looks at her. Thinking. Gestures towards the Bugati.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel, all that... thats not me,
dialog: inside Im... different. Im-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: The same great little kid you used
dialog: to be? Bruce, deep down, your
dialog: friends out there are great, too.
dialog: Its not who you are underneath...
dialog: (pokes his chest)
dialog: But what you do that defines you.
text: Rachel moves past him. Wayne stands there, eyes burning.
scene_heading: INT. GORDONS APARTMENT -- EVENING 145
text: Gordons pregnant wife, BARBARA tries to get their TWO-YEAR
text: OLD to eat. Gordon KISSES her, picks up the trash.
scene_heading: EXT. BACK ALLEY, GORDONS APARTMENT -- CONTINUOUS 146
text: Gordon sticks the lid on the trash can. THUNDER rolls
dialog: around.
speaker_heading: FLASS (0.S.)
dialog: Gonna rain, huh?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 83.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What do you want, Flass?
text: Flass, leaning on his car, feigns offence. Pulls a pint
text: bottle from his pocket.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Hows Barbara? The kid?
text: Gordon takes a drag, eyeing Flass coldly.
speaker_heading: FLASS (CONTD)
dialog: Another one on the way, right? Big
dialog: responsibility. And when youre on
dialog: a big case like Falcone... lot of
dialog: time away from here.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Cut to it, Flass.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Just saying its good the case is
dialog: clear cut- you1l wrap it up easy.
text: Flass finishes his bottle. Throws it at the trash cans.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You come around here making
text: threats, pretending to be liquored
dialog: up... tells me youre scared.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: (cold)
dialog: Take care of yourself, pal.
text: Gordon watches him head back to his car.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (0.S.)
dialog: Trouble?
text: Gordon looks up: Batman is crouched in the fire escape.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: The scums getting jumpy because
dialog: you stood up to Falcone.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Its a start. Your partner was at
text: the docks with Falcone.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 84.
speaker_heading: GORDON
text: He moonlights as a low-level
dialog: enforcer.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: There was another man. Testing the
dialog: drugs.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (surprised)
dialog: It wasnt a buy- why risk opening a
dialog: package on the docks?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Flass knows.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He wont talk.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He1l1 talk to me.
text: Gordon looks up. Close on Batman, in the shadows.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Commissioner Loeb set up a massive
dialog: task force to catch you. He thinks
dialog: youre dangerous.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What do you think? Gordon gets to
text: his feet, dusts off his pants.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I think youre trying to help...
text: Gordon looks up. But Batman is gone.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: ...but Ive been wrong before.
scene_heading: 147 EXT. CARGO SHIP, DOCKS -- NIGHT 147
text: Three MEN walk through the canyons of shipping containers,
text: checking the tags with a flashlight. They stop at one.
speaker_heading: CUSTOMS AGENT
dialog: This is the one Im talking about.
scene_heading: DOCK EMPLOYEE 1
dialog: Whats your problem with it?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 148
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 85.
speaker_heading: CUSTOMS AGENT
dialog: It shouldnt exist. This ship left
dialog: Singapore with 246 containers and
text: arrived with 247. Probably dead
dialog: illegals. You got a strong stomach?
text: They HAUL the doors open. The Customs Agent looks inside: an
text: industrial machine the size of a small van. His torch picks
text: out the WAYNE INDUSTRIES logo on the side.
speaker_heading: CUSTOMS AGENT (CONTD)
dialog: What the hell is this thing?
text: BEHIND HIM: Dock Employee 1 raises a SILENCED GUN. FIRES.
text: Dock Employee 2 helps DRAG the body into the container.
scene_heading: EXT. FALAFEL STAND, SURFACE STREET -- NIGHT 148
text: Raining. Flass stuffs falafel into his mouth. Grabs a
text: banknote from the VENDOR. Flass walks down a dark street...
text: YANKED from the pavement, hes PULLED up between buildings,
text: falafel falling, UP and UP until face-to-face with. The
text: Batman. Rain pouring off his cowl. Holding Flass by his
text: ankle. Flass is SCREAMING.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Who was with Falcone at the docks?
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: I dont know, I swear to God-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Swear to ME.
text: Batman DROPS Flass three flights down on the wire. PULLS
text: TAUT- WHIPS him back up.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: (terrified whispers)
dialog: I never knew his name... never...
dialog: Sometimes shipments went to this
dialog: guy before they went to the
dialog: dealers-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: There was something else in the
dialog: drugs, something hidden-
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 149
dialog: 150
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 86.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: I dont know- something! I never
dialog: went to the drop-off- its in the
dialog: Narrows- cops cant go into the
dialog: Narrows except in force...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Batman can.
scene_heading: EXT. THE NARROWS -- NIGHT 149
text: AN ISLAND IN GOTHAM RIVER: a ramshackle LABYRINTH of
text: crumbling public housing, makeshift additions GROWING LIKE
text: FUNGUS AROUND AN INSANE ASYLUM. A walled city. Slick with
dialog: rain.
text: Batman LANDS, CROUCHING, looking at the windows of a
text: WAREHOUSE built around the supports of the MONORAIL tracks.
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE, SHANGHAI -- MOMENTS LATER 150
text: Batman slips through a louver, drops SILENTLY to the floor
text: amidst. By the freight elevator is a massive shipping crate.
text: Batman leaps up onto its lid- pries it open.
text: Inside: the industrial machine the size of a small van.
text: Batman sees the WAYNE INDUSTRIES logo and a number:
scene_heading: M-EMIT.42B
text: NOISES. Batman melts into the shadows. THREE MEN enter. Two
text: are the Dock Employees. The third is Crane.
scene_heading: DOCK EMPLOYEE 1
dialog: The boss wants you to keep it in
text: the asylum until the time comes.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Fine, leave the body. Torch the
dialog: place. No traces.
text: The Thugs pull the Customs Agents body out then push the
text: crate onto the elevator. Crane notices RAIN spattering off
text: the open louver. He steps towards it. Thug 2 turns from the
text: elevator holding a Molotov cocktail. LIGHTS it-
text: A cord WRAPS around the BOTTLE- YANKS it into the shadows.
text: Its fuse is EXTINGUISHED. The Thugs STARE at the darkness.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 151
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 87.
text: Batman RIPS from the shadows- Thug 1 pulls a gun- Batman
text: SMASHES his arm to the ground. Thug 2 moves in from the
text: side- is DROPPED by a fast elbow to the neck.
text: Batman turns to Crane- now wearing his MASK. Carnes hand
text: FLASHES towards Batman, who DODGES a small puff of SMOKE.
text: Batman moves for Crane- COUGHS, CHOKES- losing BALANCE-
text: GASPING... Batman looks at Crane, sees a monster: FLAMING
text: EYES, ELONGATED LIMBS, SPINNING like a DERVISH...
text: Batmen REELS, in the throws of a hallucination. Crane
text: SMASHES the BOTTLE over him, soaking him with GASOLINE...
text: Batman LURCHES for the windows, IMAGES ASSAULTING his mind:
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: BATS EXPLODE from the DARK CREVICE-
text: Batman TURNS to Crane. Who holds a FLAMING LIGHTER.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: Need a light?
text: Crane TOSSES the lighter at Batman... who BURSTS into
speaker_heading: FLAMES.
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: Ras Al Ghul OPENS his BOX- BATS BURST FORTH-
text: Batman, IN FLAMES, SPINS- LEAPS desperately at the windows-
scene_heading: EXT. WAREHOUSE, THE NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 151
text: Batman SMASHES through the window, CLOAK ABLAZE...
text: FALLING... tries to ACTIVATE his CLOAK- but only gets one
text: side to POP OPEN... the deployed wing causes him to SPIRAL-
text: INSERT CUT: Young Bruce FALLING, FALLING in the well shaft-
text: Batman PLUMMETS, trailing flame, UNOPENED WING FLUTTERING
dialog: with the violent FLAPPING of-
text: BATS: SCREECHING, FLAPPING, FLUTTERING DARKNESS...
text: Batmans STIFF WING HOOKS a RAILING- SLOWS him with a
text: JOLTRIPS- DROPPING him to the ground with a CRASH...
text: Young Bruce HITS the dirt at the bottom of the SHAFT-
text: ...and a SIZZLE, as wet pavement DAMPS the flames, GROANING,
text: Batman ROLLS his burning batsuit along the asphalt.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 152
dialog: 153
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 88.
text: Batman, smoldering, LURCHES into an alley, raises his
text: grapnel gun, FIRES up at the enclosed roof- RIDES up-
text: PUNCHES his way through wire and metal, CRAWLS onto his
text: back, STARING up at the skyscrapers of Gotham. Rain blurring
dialog: his vision.
text: Insert cut: Young Bruce watches his Father CRUMPLE-
text: Batman FUMBLES at his belt. Pulls out a tiny phone.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: Alfred?! Alfred?!
scene_heading: INT. ROLLS -- LATER 152
text: Alfred DRIVES, looks through the rear-view mirror at Batman,
text: who lies in the back, FLINCHING at invisible antagonists.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: BLOOD! Alfred?! Blood! A sample-
dialog: take a sa- sample- poisoned...
text: To Batman- the car is FILLED WITH BATS... Mefistofle
dialog: rises...
text: Young Bruce in the throws of his PANIC ATTACK GULPS AIR-
text: turns to his Father, LOOKS him in the eye and CONDEMNS HIM-
speaker_heading: YOUNG BRUCE
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: We HAVE to go NOW, Dad!!
text: Young Bruce DRAGS his parents from their seats...
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM, WAYNE MANOR -- MORNING 153
text: Wayne awakes. Shivering. Red-eyed from crying. Alfred sits
text: at his bedside, watching over him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: How long did I sleep?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Two days. Its your birthday.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It was some kind of gas... I only
dialog: breathed the slightest amount...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 89.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I dread to think, sir, what
dialog: wouldve happened if youd had a
text: lungful.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ive felt those effects before...
dialog: but this was much more potent.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I took a blood sample and sent it
dialog: to a laboratory known discreet both
dialog: discreet...
dialog: (hands Wayne paper)
dialog: ...and prompt bloodwork
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (reading)
dialog: Protein-based compounds... might be
dialog: possible to work up an antidote.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Shall I contact Wayne
dialog: Pharmaceutical?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Ive got a better idea.
scene_heading: 154 INT. APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- DAY 154
text: Fox looks over the toxicology report. Looks up at Wayne.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: This was in your blood?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Its some kind of weaponized
dialog: hallucinogen. Administered in
text: aerosol form.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Mr.Wayne, you are definitely
dialog: hanging out at the wrong clubs.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Could you synthesize an antidote?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Well, the hallucinatory compounds
dialog: can be balanced... but this
dialog: receptors a compound Ive never
dialog: seen before.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 90.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (reaches for paper)
dialog: So you cant.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (snatches it away)
dialog: Did I say that? I just want you to
dialog: know how hard its gonna be.
text: Fox puts the report on his desk.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Do you know what a Wayne Industries
dialog: M-Emit42B is?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: No. But she will...
text: Fox starts typing on his computer.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: It wont tell us...
dialog: (turns to Wayne)
dialog: It must be a defense prototype.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Could you find out?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I11 make a couple calls... I still
text: have a couple friends in defense.
scene_heading: 155 INT. D.A.S OFFICE -- AFTERNOON 155
text: Gordon finds it. Knocks. Rachel looks up from her desk.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Sergeant Gordon?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Councilor. Thanks for seeing me.
text: Gordon enters, shuts the door behind himself.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 91.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: (they shake hands)
text: Will Finch go the distance on
dialog: Falcone?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: He1l have to because of the press.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What about Judge Phelan?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Someone gave me leverage.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: who?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Id rather not say.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: Theres a loose thread on the
dialog: Falcone case- I want to see what
dialog: unravels higher up. Im told you
dialog: can be trusted.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Who told you that?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Id rather not say.
text: Rachel looks at Gordon, sizing him up.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Gordon, were working for a masked
text: vigilante. Maybe from a rival gang.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: My gut says hes okay. And hes
dialog: getting things moving in this town.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: And when he gets bolder with
dialog: success? Goes too far?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Councilor, this guy took down a
dialog: dozen of Gothams most vicious
text: wiseguys single-handed and without
dialog: killing one of them- hes plenty
dialog: bold already.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 92.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: If he takes a life... its on us.
text: Gordon looks at her. Nods. A KNOCK at the door. Wayne puts
text: his head around the door. Rachel stares at him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im sorry, I1l1 come back.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I was just leaving, Mr.Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im sorry, have we..?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Gordon. Sergeant. No, I just
dialog: recognized you. From your pictures.
text: Wayne nods. Gordon looks at Rachel, nods goodbye.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (cold)
dialog: What do you want, Bruce?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I wanted to invite you a party-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: A party. Great. Just what I need...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Todays my birthday. And I wanted
dialog: to apologize.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You dont owe an apology, Bruce.
dialog: You are who you are. It simple. I
dialog: dont have the right to expect
dialog: anything more.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I thought you could never quite
dialog: give up on me.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Is the party at the house? I miss
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I hate the place. Id tear it down
dialog: if I could.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
scene_heading: CONTINUED: (4) 93.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (appalled)
dialog: Bruce, dont say that.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: The place is nothing without the
dialog: people who made it what it was. Now
dialog: theres only Alfred.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: And you.
text: Rachel looks at him. An ASSISTANT sticks her head in.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Its Falcone. They moved him to
text: Arkham Asylum on suicide watch.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Who authorized that?!
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: Judge Bentley, on the advice of the
dialog: head psychiatrist, Dr.Jonathan
dialog: Crane.
text: Rachel starts getting her things together.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Get Crane there right now- dont
dialog: take no for an answer... and call
dialog: Dr.Lehmann, we1l need our own
text: assessment on the Judges desk by
dialog: morning.
text: The Assistant nods, leaves. Rachel heads for the door.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Guess I wont make your party...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre going to Arkham now? Its in
dialog: the Narrows, Rachel.
text: Rachel gives him a look.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You have yourself a great time-
dialog: some of us have work to do.
text: She hurries past him. Stops. Turns. Looks at him, softer.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 156
dialog: 157
dialog: 158
dialog: 159
dialog: 160
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (5) 94.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Happy Birthday, Bruce.
text: She races down the steps. Wayne watches her go, thinking.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- LATER 156
text: Wayne hurries through the hall. Alfred in pursuit. Tables of
text: food and decoration fill the hall.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: But Master Wayne, the guests will
dialog: be arriving.
text: Wayne turns.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Keep them happy until I arrive.
dialog: Tell them that joke you know.
text: Wayne hurries off. Alfred watches him go, exasperated.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY -- CONTINUOUS 157
text: Wayne steps to the piano, hits 4 notes- the bookcase
text: SWINGSOPEN. Wayne steps through.
scene_heading: INT. STONE STAIRCASE -- CONTINUOUS 158
text: Wayne descends. Arrives at the top of a wrought iron SPIRAL
text: STAIRCASE, steps onto the dumb waiter at its center.
text: Wayne pulls a lever, RELEASING the lift which PLUMMETS
text: VERTIGINOUSLY DOWN the CENTER of the SPIRALING stair.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE -- CONTINUOUS 159
text: The lift hits the bottom with a great RATTLE of crimes.
text: Wayne moves to a PADLOCKED BOX. Opens it: the BAT SUIT hangs
text: there- a PHANTOM, black eyes STARING back at him. He reaches
dialog: for it.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM, THE NARROWS -- EVENING 160
text: Rachels car crosses the bridge to the Narrows.
dialog: 161
dialog: 162
dialog: 163
dialog: 95.
scene_heading: INT. CRANES OFFICE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- MOMENTS LATER 161
text: Rachel sits in front of Crane at his desk..
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Ms.Dodson, theres nothing to add
dialog: to the report I filed with the
dialog: judge.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Well, I have questions about your
dialog: report.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Such as, is it unusual for a
dialog: 58-year old man with no history of
dialog: mental illness to have a complete
dialog: psychotic break?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Yes. But this is a mental asylum
dialog: for the criminally insane. The
dialog: unusual is usual here.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 162
text: The GLOWING WINDOW of Cranes office. Batman, crouched on
text: adjusts mikes in the ears of his cowl.
scene_heading: INT. CRANES OFFICE -- CONTINUOUS 163
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: But isnt it convenient for Falcone
dialog: to suddenly develop these symptoms
dialog: when hes about to be indicted?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Theres nothing convenient about
dialog: his symptoms, Miss Dodson.
dialog: (smiles, sympathetic)
dialog: Look, I doubt were even supposed
dialog: to be having this conversation, but
dialog: off the record...
text: Crane RISES, motioning.
dialog: 164
dialog: 165
dialog: 166
dialog: 96.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 164
text: An ORDERLY talking to a NURSE. Crane leads Rachel past.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Were not talking about a few
text: easily-manufactured eccentricities.
text: Crane stops at a door. Motions Rachel to look: Falcone
text: STRAPPED to the bed. He STARES at the door, mumbling.
speaker_heading: FALCONE
dialog: Scarecrow... S-scarecrow... S-S...
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Whats "scarecrow"?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Patients suffering delusional
dialog: episodes often focus their paranoia
dialog: onto an external tormentor, usually
dialog: one conforming to the Jungian
dialog: archetypes.
dialog: (shrugs)
text: In this case, a scarecrow.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 165
text: Batman, upside down, CLINGS to the wall above the window at
text: the end of the corridor. He RACKS AUDIO FOCUS THROUGH the
text: Orderlys conversation, SETTLING on Cranes voice.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 166
text: Rachel looks at Falcone, mumbling, delusional.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
text: Hes drugged.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Psychopharmacology is my primary
dialog: field- Im a strong advocate.
text: Crane turns to Falcone. Staring.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: Outside, he was a giant. In here,
dialog: only the mind can grant you power.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 167
dialog: 168
dialog: 169
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 97.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You enjoy the reversal.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: (shrugs, smiles)
dialog: I respect the minds power over the
dialog: body. Its why I do what I do.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (hard)
dialog: And I do what I do to put scum like
dialog: Falcone behind bars, not in
dialog: therapy. I want my own psychiatric
dialog: consultant to have full access to
dialog: Falcone, including bloodwork to
dialog: find out exactly what you have him
dialog: on.
text: Crane stares at her. Shrugs.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR -- CONTINUOUS 167
text: Crane steps in, Rachel follows. He puts a key into the
dialog: panel.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: First thing tomorrow, then.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Tonight. Ive already paged
text: Dr.Lehmann over at County General.
text: Crane turns the key.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: AS you wish.
text: The elevator descends. The doors open onto:
scene_heading: INT. DESERTED WING, SUB-LEVEL ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 168
text: A long, decrepit corridor. Water dripping, clearly disused.
text: Crane steps off the elevator. Rachel follows, perturbed.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED REFECTORY -- CONTINUOUS 169
text: Rachel follows Crane into a vast room:
text: Tables stretch off into the room, covered in bags of powder,
text: scales, aluminum barrels and DOZENS OF INMATES working the
text: powder, refining it.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 170
dialog: 171
dialog: 172
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 98.
text: Armed THUGS look up, curious. Crane surveys the room.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: This is where we make the medicine.
dialog: Perhaps you should have some. Clear
dialog: your head.
text: He turns, but Rachel is gone. Crane smiles...
scene_heading: INT. DERELICT CORRIDOR, DISUSED WING -- CONTINUOUS 170
text: Rachel RACES into the elevator...
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR -- CONTINUOUS 171
text: Rachel HITS the 2nd floor button. Nothing. She HITS all the
text: buttons, floors the alarm... all dead without the key.
text: The door opens to Cranes MASKED FACE. He reaches out-
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Boo.
text: A small puff of GAS sprays from his sleeve. Rachel RECOILS,
text: coughing, choking. She looks up at Crane:
text: The eyeholes of the burlap mask are FLAMING.
text: Rachel SCREAMS.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED REFECTORY, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 172
text: The Thugs DRAG Rachel into the room. The inmates stare
text: blankly, clearly drugged. Crane turns Rachels reluctant
text: face to look up at his mask. She GULPS PANIC BREATHS-
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Who knows youre here? Rachel
text: SHAKES her head.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: WHO KNOWS?! !
text: Rachel PULLS away, BURYING her head in her arms.
text: THE LIGHTS GO OUT.
text: The Thugs look around, unnerved. Crane PULLS OFF his mask.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED:
dialog: The Thugs
dialog: The First
dialog: (2) 99.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: (fascinated)
dialog: Hes here.
speaker_heading: FIRST THUG
dialog: who?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: The batman.
text: exchange nervous glances.
speaker_heading: FIRST THUG
dialog: What do we do?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: What anyone does when a prowler
text: comes around.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Call the police.
text: Thug looks at Crane.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: You want the cops here?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: At this point, theyre irrelevant.
dialog: But the Batman... he has a talent
dialog: for disruption. Let the cops
text: wrangle him.
speaker_heading: CRANE (CONTD)
dialog: Force him outside, the police will
dialog: take him down.
dialog: (indicates inmates)
dialog: Get them out of here.
speaker_heading: FIRST THUG
dialog: (indicates Rachel)
dialog: What about her?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Shes gone. I gave her a
dialog: concentrated dose. The mind can
dialog: only take so much.
speaker_heading: SECOND THUG
dialog: The things they say about him...
dialog: Can he really fly?
dialog: 173
dialog: 174
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 173
text: Batmans cape FLUTTERS as he SWINGS down two stories,
text: LANDING at the high windows of the derelict corridor.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED REFECTORY -- CONTINUOUS 174
speaker_heading: THIRD THUG
dialog: I heard he can disappear -
text: Crane backs into the shadows, smiling at the Third Thug.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: We1l find out, wont we?
text: The Thugs move either side of the door... GLASS SMASHES,
text: across the room- a Shadow drops from a high window. Rachel
text: SCREAMS. The two thugs advance through the darkness.
text: Second thug is GRABBED from above- PULLED UP, SCREAMING,
text: into the blackness of the rafters.
text: The First Thug peers up into the darkness, gun aimed.
text: A SHADOW DESCENDS, SHOUTING- First Thug FIRES- the Shadow
text: CRUMPLES onto him. It is the Second Thug- First Thug ROLLS
text: the body off, SCRAMBLES to his feet- Batman STRIKES him from
text: behind, KNOCKING him unconscious.
text: SIRENS outside, close.
text: Batman looks at Rachel-
text: Crane BURSTS from the shadows, arm high, aimed at Batmans
text: face- Batman grabs his arm, DUCKING away from the puff of
text: GAS from Cranes sleeve... Batman SPINS Crane, RIPPING off
text: his mask, WRENCHES his arm around to his own face, RIPS
text: Cranes jacket open and pulls out the BLADDER full of toxin.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Taste of your own medicine, doctor?
text: Cranes eyes go wide as Batman SQUEEZES the bladder and a
text: choking cloud of dust sprays into Cranes face...
text: Crane falls to the ground, CHOKING. Batman turns him over,
text: pulls his face up to meet his.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: Who are you working for?!
text: Cranes eyes are wide with TERROR.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 175
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 101.
text: Batman is a DEATHS HEAD- black eyes, fangs.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Ras... Ras... Al Ghul...
text: Batman reacts, pulls Crane tighter.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Ras Al Ghul is dead, Crane! who
dialog: are you really working for?
dialog: CRANE! ! !
text: But Crane just STARES at him, EYES GLAZING- MIND
text: FLYINGIMAGES CASCADING THROUGH HIS FEVERED BRAIN... Crane
dialog: smiles.
speaker_heading: CRANE
text: Dr. Crane isnt here right now, but
dialog: if youd like to make an
dialog: appointment -
text: Sirens outside. Batman TURNS to Rachel. Through her eyes:
text: Batman is a towering HORNED, WINGED DEMON...
text: Rachel LASHES OUT at the demon with all her might... Batman
text: applies a GRIP to her neck that renders her unconscious.
dialog: cop
dialog: (over bullhorn)
dialog: BATMAN. PUT DOWN YOUR WEAPONS AND
dialog: SURRENDER. YOU ARE SURROUNDED.
text: Batman RISES, carrying Rachel.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 175
text: POLICE CARS surround the building. COPS have guns drawn,
text: WAITING. STAFF emerge, blinking, from the darkened asylum.
text: Flass and Gordon arrive. Flass shouts at the Uniforms:
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Whatre you waiting for?!
speaker_heading: UNIFORMED COP
dialog: Backup.
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: Backup?!
text: Flass gestures at the DOZEN police cars outside the
dialog: building.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 176
dialog: 177
dialog: 178
dialog: 179
dialog: 180
speaker_heading: 181
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 102.
speaker_heading: UNIFORMED COP
text: The Batmans in there. SWATs on
dialog: the way, but if you want to go
dialog: now...
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Im right behind you, sir.
text: Flass turns to Gordon. Shrugs.
speaker_heading: FLASS
text: SWATs on the way.
text: Gordon shakes his head. Approaches the front doors.
scene_heading: INT. DERELICT CORRIDOR, DISUSED WING -- CONTINUOUS 176
text: Batman carries Rachel, cloak BILLOWING in his wake.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 177
text: Gordon moves through the dark, gun drawn, eyes FLICKING to
text: terrified NURSES who make their way to the front door.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 178
text: SWAT OFFICERS pour out of vans, RACE up the front steps.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 179
text: Gordon tries the elevator- it is dead. He enters the STAIRS.
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 180
text: The SWAT team BURSTS in- FLASHLIGHTS on RIFLES SCAN the
dialog: darkness...
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 181
text: Gordon locks down the stairwell- the way down to the disused
text: wing is fenced off. He heads up- and is GRABBED and SWUNG
text: OUT into the stairwell. Batman holds him as they ROCKET
speaker_heading: UPWARDS.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What -!
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 182
dialog: 183
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 103.
text: Batman covers Gordons mouth- down below: the door SMASHES
text: OPEN- SWAT team lights CROSS the darkened stairwell. Batman
text: PULLS Gordon into the rafters. Gordon turns, FURIOUS- sees:
text: Rachel. Lying in a storage space/open attic. Twitching:
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: (whispering)
dialog: Whats happened to her?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: Crane poisoned her with his toxin.
text: He was the third man at the docks.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Let me take her down to the medics-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: They cant help her. But I can.
text: THE LIGHTS COME ON- bleaching the stairwell- Batman, Rachel
text: and Gordon are in the shadow of the attic.
text: Batman reaches down to his boot. Presses a SWITCH in the
text: heel, producing a barely audible HIGH-FREQUENCY WHINE.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: (indicates Rachel)
dialog: I need to get her the antidote
text: before the damage becomes
dialog: permanent.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: How long does she have?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Not long.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 182
text: A strange SQUEALING SOUND rises. Flass looks around,
text: curious. A dark CLOUD crosses the moon... not a regular
dialog: cloud...
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 183
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Get her downstairs, meet me in the
text: alley on the Narrows side.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 184
dialog: 185
dialog: 186
dialog: 187
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 104.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: How will you get out?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (indicates his boot)
dialog: I called for backup. Cranes been
text: refining his toxin, stockpiling it.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What was he planning?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I dont know, but hes been working
dialog: for someone else.
text: Gordon frowns at the loud SQUEALING noise.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What is that?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Backup.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 184
text: Flass SCREAMS- Cops DIVE for cover as BATS- thousands upon
text: thousands- DESCEND on the Asylum, HEADING for the windows-
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 185
text: Windows SHATTER INWARDS as bats POUR into the building-
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 186
text: Gordon covers Rachel as he carries her down the steps.
scene_heading: INT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 187
text: Bats FLOOD into the bright stairwell, SOARING UP past the
text: cowering SWATS, a BLACK MASS RISING, DARKENING the
dialog: stairwell.
text: Batman amidst the bats. Calm. Pulls the sounder out of his
text: heel, leans over the stairwell and DROPS it...
text: Bats CYCLONE down the stairwell, FOLLOWING the signal.
text: Batman JUMPS into the center of the black cyclone- HIDDEN
text: FALLING...
dialog: 188
dialog: 189
dialog: 190
dialog: 105.
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 188
text: Batman OPENS his cloak with a JOLT- lands HARD. He moves
text: calmly through the bats, slipping past COWERING SWATS,
text: moving past cell doors. Inmates STARE, wide-eyed out their
text: windows as he passes. Batman turns to a cell door, pulls a
text: small package out of his utility belt...
scene_heading: INT. CELL -- CONTINUOUS 189
text: Two inmates FLINCH as the door lock BLASTS open and the door
text: is KICKED In- Batman STRIDES across the cell between them...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Excuse me-
text: And BLASTS the window of their cell. He SLIDES out... one
text: Inmate turns to the other.
speaker_heading: LUNATIC
dialog: Whatd I tell ya?
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET -- CONTINUOUS 190
text: Gordon lowers Rachel to the asphalt. She STIRS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (0.S.)
dialog: How is she?
text: Gordon looks up to see Batman standing there.
text: A SEARCHLIGHT from a chopper blasts them. Batman GRABS
text: Rachel. Gordon points back to the street.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Take my car.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I bought mine.
text: Batman has disappeared into the dark end of the alley.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Yours?
scene_heading: BLINDING HEADLIGHTS FLARE. A MASSIVE ENGINE ROARS-
dialog: Gordon DIVES out of the way as-
text: The BATMOBILE comes flying out of the darkness... the
text: matteblack, muscularity of the stealth-finished "car" BLOWS
text: by. Gordons jaw drops.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 191
dialog: 192
dialog: 193
dialog: 194
dialog: 195
dialog: 196
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 106.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: I gotta get me one of those.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 191
text: Batman DRIVES. Rachel, COMING TO, hangs on, TERRIFIED. A COP
text: CAR pulls across the alley- Batman hits the accelerator.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY -- CONTINUOUS 192
text: The Batmobile SPEEDS towards the cop car-
scene_heading: INT. COP CAR -- CONTINUOUS 193
text: The Cops GAWP at the Batmobile, BRACING-
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY -- CONTINUOUS 194
text: The Batmobile SMASHES into the cop car, huge front tires
text: CRUSHING the bonnet, BOUNCING the Batmobile right over the
text: cop car in a messy display of brute force.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 195
text: The Batmobile TEARS left, and ACCELERATES down the street...
scene_heading: INT. CRUSHED COP CAR -- CONTINUOUS 196
text: The Cops are scrunched down. One of them GRABS the radio.
speaker_heading: CoP 1
dialog: Hes in a vehicle!
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: (over radio)
dialog: Make and color?
speaker_heading: coP 1
dialog: Its a black...
dialog: (turns to partner. who shrugs)
dialog: ... tank.
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: (over radio)
dialog: Tank?
dialog: 197
dialog: 198
dialog: 199
dialog: 200
dialog: 201
dialog: 202
dialog: 107.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 197
text: The Batmobile WEAVES around traffic, DODGING freeway
dialog: supports.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 198
text: Rachel BRACES against the dash, BREATHING FAST, staring at
text: the road ahead... through her eyes:
text: SPEED: pure, visceral SENSATION- lights STREAKING, columns
text: FLASHING past at unthinkable velocity-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Youve been poisoned. Stay calm.
text: He looks at an intricate GPS display, then at the road
dialog: ahead.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 199
text: The Batmobile RACES along- JUMPS lights, nimbly DODGING
text: through the cross-traffic. Two Cop Cars join the pursuit
text: from the cross streets, lights BLAZING, sirens BLARING.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 200
text: Batman spots the Cops on a rear-view monitor, FLIPS a
dialog: switch.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 201
text: The Batmobile DROPS SPIKE STRIPS onto the road... the Cop
text: Cars hit them- tires EXPLODE- rims light SPARKS as they
text: GRIND, skidding SIDEWAYS, one laying into the other.
text: Up ahead: the Batmobile SLALOMS outside of the freeway
text: supports, ROLLS over the sidewalk, NIPS back into the
dialog: roadway.
scene_heading: INT. CRUISER -- CONTINUOUS 202
text: An IMPATIENT COP is on the radio.
speaker_heading: COP 3
dialog: At least tell me what it looks
dialog: like...
text: His eyes WIDEN: the Batmobile ROARS past. A shadowy MONSTER.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 203
dialog: 204
dialog: 205
dialog: 206
dialog: 207
dialog: 208
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 108.
speaker_heading: CoP 3 (CONTD)
dialog: Never mind.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM 203
text: The Batmobile comes out from under the elevated freeway and
text: is hit by a SPOTLIGHT from a CHOPPER.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 204
text: Batman glances at a row of BUTTONS- each one a tiny SCREEN
text: showing different views. Batman PUSHES one- that view flicks
text: onto the main display. Rachel is HYPERVENTILATING.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Breath slowly. Close your eyes.
text: She does so. For an instant.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Thats worse!
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 205
text: Three Cop Cars pull across the intersection in a ROADBLOCK.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 206
text: Batman SPOTS the ROADBLOCK in front. Touches the GPS screen-
text: the map becomes THREE-DIMENSIONAL (heights of building,
text: levels of streets). Batman SKIDS into a turn-
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 207
text: The Batmobile SKIDS through the entrance to a multi-level
text: PARKING GARAGE- TAKING OUT the ticket machine and barrier.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 208
text: The Batmobile RACES upwards through the structure, the cars
text: enormous width TAKING OUT PILLARS at every turn.
dialog: 209
dialog: 210
dialog: 211
dialog: 212
dialog: 213
dialog: 109.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 209
text: Rachel FLINCHES AWAY from the pillars-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Whatre you doing?! !
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Shortcut.
scene_heading: INT. PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 210
text: Cop Cars SMASH into DOWNED PILLARS in the Batmobiles wake.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF, PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 211
text: The Batmobile ROARS out onto the top level, and is LIT UP by
text: the CHOPPER.
text: The Batmobile REVERSES into a spot marked "COMPACT",
text: CRUSHING the cars either side, then RACES forward... Cop
text: Cars emerge onto the roof, BLOCKING THE ONLY WAY DOWN... The
text: Batmobile SCREECHES to a HALT-
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 212
text: Batman glances at his 3-d GPS. Then looks at Rachel.
speaker_heading: coP 3
dialog: (over loudspeaker )
dialog: TURN OFF YOUR ENGINE!
text: She recoils, TERRIFIED by his mask, clawing at her harness.
text: Batman puts his gloved hand on her frantic arms.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Trust me.
text: Batman SLIDES into the FRONT DRIVING POSITION, body PRONE as
text: if riding a motorcycle, head in a glass POD between the
text: front wheels. He HITS a button.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF, PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 213
text: CANNONS emerge from the nose of the Batmobile- BLASTING the
text: far wall... the massive JET ENGINE at the back IGNITES, its
text: mouth ADJUSTING... FLAPS on the front and REAR of the car,
text: FLARE OUT like a PYTHON spreading its neck...
dialog: 214
dialog: 215
dialog: 216
dialog: 217
dialog: 218
dialog: 219
speaker_heading: 220
dialog: 110.
text: The Cops STARE. The Batmobile ROCKETS FORWARD... heading for
text: the GAP in the far wall... accelerating...
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 214
text: Rachel SCREAMS- Batman HITS another button-
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF, PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 215
text: An INVERTED SPOILER JAMS INTO THE AIRSTREAM at the front of
text: the car, BUMPING it just off the ground, a RAMPLESS JUMP-
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOPS -- CONTINUOUS 216
text: The Batmobile JUMPS OFF the parking garage, soaring over a
text: thirty-foot gap to LAND HEAVILY on a neighboring FLAT ROOF.
text: The Cops STARE at one another, open-mouthed.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 217
text: Batman YANKS the steering left, hits the BOOST-
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOPS -- CONTINUOUS 218
text: The Batmobile TURNS- ROCKETS for the edge of the roof...
text: SHOOTS over the gap to the next roof, CHOPPER IN PURSUIT.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 219
text: Batman checks his 3-D GPS, ROCKETS forward, aiming at the
text: next roof, a PITCHED CHATEAU-STYLE TILE ROOF.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS BELOW -- CONTINUOUS 220
text: Corp Cars SHOOT along, paralleling the rooftop chase...FROM
text: BELOW: the Chopper SWOOPS LOW over the buildings... A
text: GLIMPSE of the Batmobile as it LEAPS across to the next
dialog: building...
speaker_heading: coP 4
dialog: (over radio)
dialog: Were on him, were on him...
dialog: 221
dialog: 222
speaker_heading: 223
dialog: 224
dialog: 225
dialog: 226
dialog: 227
dialog: 111.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOPS -- CONTINUOUS 221
text: The Batmobile lands on the PITCHED ROOF, racing along at a
text: PRECARIOUS ANGLE, TILES SLIDING off the roof in its wake.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 222
text: Batmans forward-slung position is GYROSCOPICALLY BALANCED-
text: he is the only vertical element in the angled car.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOPS -- CONTINUOUS 223
text: Chased by the LOW-FLYING chopper, the Batmobile SWERVES up
text: over the GABLES, roof CRUMBLING in its wake, RACING for the
text: end of the roof which PARALLELS an ELEVATED FREEWAY.
text: The Batmobile rockets forward- JUMPS THE LAST GABLE... DROPS
text: onto the elevated FREEWAY, TRAFFIC SWERVING to avoid it.
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 224
text: Cop Cars see the Batmobile disappear onto the freeway above.
speaker_heading: coP 4
dialog: Dammit!
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 225
text: Batmans display shows a RADAR SWEEP and PLOTS a course
text: through the differing speeds of the lanes. He pilots,
text: LEANING left and right like a motorcyclist...
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY -- CONTINUOUS 226
text: The Batmobile SWERVES- the Choppers light stays trained.
text: TRAFFIC gets heavier. Cop Cars are CLOSING IN from behind...
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 227
text: Batman lifts himself back into the REAR DRIVING POSITION-
text: THROTTLES BACK- KILLS all the lights, and the ENGINE.
dialog: 228
dialog: 229
dialog: 230
speaker_heading: 231
dialog: 232
dialog: 233
dialog: 112.
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY -- CONTINUOUS 228
text: The Batmobile DROPS BACK, DARK... the Chopper LOSES IT. The
text: Batmobile CRUISES across the lanes, a WRAITH.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 229
text: SILENCE, but for the steady WHINE of the ELECTRIC MOTOR.
text: Rachel BREATHES in the sudden quiet. Eyes flickering.
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY HEADING OUT OF GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 230
text: The Batmobile SLICES across lanes, a SHADOW only visible
text: BREAKING the GLARE of other cars HEADLIGHTS. The Cop Cars
text: pull forward, driving parallel, an empty lane between them.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 231
text: Rachel stares at Batman in the intimate quiet. Her eyes are
text: glaring. Her breathing is shallow.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: quiet
dialog: (Stay with me.)
scene_heading: INT. COP CAR -- CONTINUOUS 232
text: The Cop turns left to look at the other Cop Car.
speaker_heading: COP 3
dialog: Whered he-?
text: He sees, between his car and the next, a BLACK SHAPE.
speaker_heading: COP 3 (CONTD)
dialog: THERE HE IS!
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 233
text: The SPOTLIGHT hits the car- Batman HITS a button- the main
text: engine ROARS to life- Batman SLIPS into the prone position-
text: Hits the BOOST.
dialog: 234
dialog: 235
dialog: 236
dialog: 237
dialog: 238
dialog: 239
dialog: 113.
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY -- CONTINUOUS 234
text: The Batmobile SHOOTS forward from between the two Cop Cars.
scene_heading: INT. COP CAR -- CONTINUOUS 235
text: The Batmobiles JET WASH BLASTS the windscreen, SHATTERING
text: it, the Cop throws his hands in front of his face-
scene_heading: EXT. FREEWAY -- CONTINUOUS 236
text: The Cop Car SPINS out of its lane, SLAMMING into the guard
text: rail as the Batmobile RACES ahead, weaving through traffic.
text: The Batmobile slides onto a TIGHTLY-CURVING EXIT RAMP...
text: FLIES off the ramp, JUMPING DOWN onto the frontage road
dialog: below.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 237
text: Batman KILLS the lights, running on NIGHT VISION. Rachels
text: eyes flicker at the EERIE green view of ghostly trees, her
text: breathing FASTER and still more SHALLOW.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Hold on. Just hold on.
scene_heading: Batman YANKS A LEVER-
scene_heading: EXT. SMALL TURNOFF -- CONTINUOUS 238
text: A ground ANCHOR DIGS into the road, WHIPPING the Batmobile
text: RIGHT in a HARD TURN, down a small turnoff... the Chopper
text: LOSES the Batmobile, pursuing Cop Cars BLAZE PAST the
dialog: turnoff.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 239
text: Rachel, crying, looks at the monstrous shapes of the trees:
text: FLICKERING, jagged tree shapes SPIN past DIZZYINGLY
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Rachel? Rachel?!
text: No reply. Up ahead: a LOOKOUT over a river gorge. Batman
text: PUSHES the Batmobile, SPEEDING towards the lookout. Rachels
text: glazes eyes REGISTER the danger- she TWISTS, PANICKED...
dialog: 240
dialog: 241
dialog: 242
dialog: 243
dialog: 244
dialog: 245
dialog: 114.
scene_heading: EXT. WOODED PATH -- CONTINUOUS 240
text: The Batmobile ROCKETS off the edge of the lookout, over the
text: gorge, FLYING STRAIGHT AT THE FACE OF A WATERFALL.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 241
text: Rachel SCREAMS as they SPLASH INTO THE FACE OF THE
speaker_heading: WATERFALL -
scene_heading: INT. CAVERNS -- CONTINUOUS 242
text: -AND EMERGE THROUGH THE CURTAIN OF WATER into the BATCAVE.
text: The Batmobiles ground ANCHORS hook a steel CABLE, spinning
text: an INERTIA REEL bolted to the cave wall, YANKING the car to
text: a halt like a jet landing on an aircraft carrier.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 243
text: Rachel BOUNCES in her seat. PASSED OUT.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE -- CONTINUOUS 244
text: The canopy of the Batmobile hisses open in three complex
text: sections, like insect wings IMPLODING. Batman LIFTS Rachel
text: from the cockpit, steps down onto wet shale... CARRIES her
text: into the damp blackness of the caverns.
text: Cloak BILLOWING in his wake, he heads for the GLOW of his
text: work table. Gently lays Rachel on the table. RACKS up the
text: scaffold to his computer station. A CONTAINER sits there
text: with paperwork from Fox. Batman opens it, removes a VIAL. He
text: plugs it into a pneumatic SYRINGE, puts the syringe between
text: his teeth- GLIDES off the scaffold, LANDING beside Rachel.
text: He INJECTS her in the biceps.
text: Batman steps back, watching Rachels breathing SLOW.
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED REFECTORY, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 245
text: Gordon surveys the scene: COPS and SWATS dig through the
text: mess, interviewing Inmates and sifting rubble. A DETECTIVE
text: sits in a cell doorway examining Cranes mask. Crane is
text: huddled in the corner, STARING.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 246
dialog: 247
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 115.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Is he cooperating?
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE
dialog: If by cooperating you mean chewing
text: his way through three sets of
dialog: restraints, then yes, hes
dialog: cooperating. Did we catch the
dialog: Batman?
text: Gordon tries not to smile.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Nope.
text: A cop hurries over.
speaker_heading: CoP
dialog: Sir, theres something you should
dialog: take a look at...
scene_heading: INT. DERELICT BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 246
text: Tiled baths and hydrotherapy equipment. A POOL in the
text: center. The Cop leads Gordon to the edge... A massive HOLE
text: has been dug through the bottom.
text: Dozens of ALUMINUM BARRELS sit alongside. Gordon climbs
text: down, PEERS into the hole... A TORRENT of water runs at the
dialog: bottom.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Looks like they tapped the mains...
text: Gordon looks at the dozens of aluminum barrels. Realizing.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: Get me somebody at the water board!
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE -- LATER 247
text: Rachels eyes flicker open to the cavernous damp darkness.
text: She sees BATS banging high above. CLOSES her eyes again.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (under her breath)
dialog: Oh. My. God.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (0.S.)
dialog: How do you feel?
text: His voice ECHOES as if spoken from al shadows at once.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 116.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: Where are we?
dialog: Nothing.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Why did you bring me here?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: If I hadnt... your mind would now
dialog: be lost. You were poisoned.
text: Rachel thinks.., concentrating.., remembering.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I remember... nightmares. This...
dialog: face, this... mask.
dialog: (realizes)
dialog: Crane. It was Crane-
text: Rachel STRUGGLES off the table, trying to stand.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: I have to tell the police- weve
dialog: got-
text: She SLIPS- Batman is there, CATCHING her.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Rest. Gordon has Crane.
text: In his arms she looks up at him- he lays her gently back
text: onto the table. Retreats into shadow.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Is Sergeant Gordon your friend?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I dont have the luxury of friends.
text: Rachel watches this dark shadow hover just outside the
dialog: light.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Why did you save my life?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Gotham needs you.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: And you serve Gotham?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 117.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I serve justice.
text: Rachel STARES at the solitary shadow. Fascinated. Pitying.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Perhaps you do.
text: Batman steps into the light. Holding a pneumatic syringe and
text: two vials. Rachel stares at him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Im going to give you a sedative.
dialog: You11 wake up back at home...
text: Batman holds up the two vials.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: And when you do, get these to
dialog: Gordon, and Gordon alone. Trust no
dialog: one.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What are they?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: The antidote. One for Gordon to
dialog: inoculate himself, the other to
dialog: start mass-production.
text: Batman hands Rachel the vials. She looks at him, curious.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: Crane was just a pawn. He was
text: working for someone else.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (remembering)
dialog: Ghul... something Al Ghul...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Ras Al Ghul. Its not him. Hes
dialog: dead.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: How do you know?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I watched him die.
text: Batman approaches with the syringe. Rachel offers her arm.
text: Batman injects her. Her eyes close. Batman removes his cowl.
text: Wayne stands above the sleeping Rachel. Stares at her for an
text: inexpressibly lonely moment.
dialog: 248
dialog: 249
dialog: 250
dialog: 251
dialog: 118.
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 248
text: Gordon is on the phone-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Someones been dumping a dangerous
dialog: contaminant into the supply from
dialog: this location for days, maybe
dialog: weeks-
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD -- CONTINUOUS 249
text: Two TECHNICIANS sit there, one on the phone to Gordon. A
text: large screen in front of them maps the water supply of
dialog: Gotham.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: If thats true then its already
text: spread through the whole system.
dialog: But no ones reported any
dialog: effects...
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 250
text: Gordon looks around, thinking, frustrated.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It must be like chlorine or
dialog: fluoride- harmless to drink, but
dialog: when you breathe it its deadly...
dialog: look, wake up your boss, see if
dialog: theres a way to flush out the
dialog: system.
text: Gordon hangs up. Frustrated. Notices something. A large
text: SHIPPING CRATE. He turns to the Cop.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: Open that up.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY, WAYNE MANOR -- EVENING 251
text: Wayne emerges from the bookcase. The noise of a PARTY
text: outside the door. Alfred is there waiting, dinner jacket
text: over his arm. Wayne grabs the shirt- dressing hastily.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachels sedated. You can take her
dialog: home.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 252
dialog: 253
dialog: 254
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 119.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Very good, sir.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Is Fox still here?
dialog: (Alfred nods)
dialog: Tell your staff to stop serving
dialog: drinks and move everybody on after
dialog: the cake.
text: Alfred nods. Wayne moves to the door. Alfred STOPS him.
text: Hands him a towel, gesturing at his face: Wayne is still
text: wearing BLACK MAKEUP around his eyes.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 252
text: Hundreds of GUESTS. Music. Tables groaning with food
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST (0.S.)
dialog: There he is!
text: Guests look up- Wayne WADES INTO the throng, GRINNING and
text: GLAD-HANDING. The band strikes up with "Happy Birthday",
text: Wayne spots Fox at the buffet.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE ENTRANCE, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 253
text: As sounds from the party drift over, Alfred gently arranges
text: the unconscious Rachel on the rear seat of the car. He
text: frowns as Rachels legs get stuck. He looks up to see a
text: PARTY GUEST, cigarette in hand, staring, curious.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: A little the worse for wear, Im
dialog: afraid.
text: Alfred YANKS Waynes gold clubs to one side, Rachel settles.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 254
text: Guests are leaving. Wayne works the room, charming, but
text: distracted... heading to Fox.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Any word on that... item.
text: Fox nods, glances around. Leans in, conspiratorial.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 120.
speaker_heading: FOX
text: A contact in heavy weapons tipped
dialog: me off- its a microwave emitter.
text: It vaporizes water.
dialog: Wayne thinks.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Could you sue it to put a
dialog: biological agent into the air?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Sure, if the water supply were
dialog: poisoned before you vaporized it.
text: Wayne takes this in. Grave. Nods at Fox.
speaker_heading: EARLE (0.S.)
dialog: Happy Birthday, Bruce.
text: Wayne turns to Earle.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Mr.Earle, good of you to come.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Not everybody thought youd make it
dialog: this far.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sorry to disappoint. How did the
dialog: stock offering go?
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Very well- the price soared.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Who was buying?
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: A variety of funds and
dialog: brokerages... its all a bit
dialog: technical- the key thing is, our
text: companys future is secure.
text: Wayne nods. Gestures to Fox.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Have you met Lucius Fox?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 255
dialog: 256
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 121.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Of course, Lucius, how are you?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Fox is showing me the ropes down at
dialog: Applied Sciences... hes a great
dialog: untapped resource at our company,
dialog: arent you, Mr.Fox?
text: Fox shoots Wayne a look, but Wayne WINKS and moves off.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Hes a good kid.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: (cold)
dialog: Fox, forget about kissing Waynes
dialog: ass to get back in- Im merging
dialog: Applied Sciences with central
dialog: archiving and youre top of the
dialog: early retirement list...
dialog: (smiles at reaction)
dialog: Didnt you get the memo?
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 255
text: Gordon and the other Cops STARE at the MICROWAVE EMITTER.
speaker_heading: CoP
dialog: What the hell is it?
text: Gordon turns to the SWAT team members.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I dont know, but nobody gets near
dialog: it, understand? wWere closing the
dialog: bridges, locking down the whole
dialog: island.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM, RACHELS APARTMENT -- CONTINUOUS 256
text: Rachel STIRS. On her bed fully clothed. Trying to remember a
text: strange dream. She sees the two vials of antidote sitting on
text: her bedside table. HURRIES to her feet.
dialog: 257
dialog: 122.
scene_heading: INT. MAIN HALL, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 257
text: Wayne moves across the party, heading for the study... An
text: ELDERLY SOCIETY DAME grabs him-
speaker_heading: SOCIETY DAME
dialog: Bruce, theres somebody here you
dialog: simply must meet...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Mrs. Delane, I cant just now...
text: She TURNS Wayne to face an ASIAN MAN in his fifties.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY DAME
dialog: Now, am I pronouncing it right..?
text: In the Asian Mans buttonhole is a DOUBLE-BLOOMED BLUE
speaker_heading: POPPY.
speaker_heading: SOCIETY DAME (CONTD)
dialog: Mr. Al Ghul?
text: The Asian Man nods. Wayne STARES at him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre not Ras Al Ghul. Hes dead.
text: The Society Dame laughs nervously, confused.
speaker_heading: VOICE (0.S.)
dialog: But is Ras Al Ghul immortal. .?
text: Wayne TURNS. Standing there. Smiling. Ducard.
speaker_heading: DUCARD
dialog: Are his methods supernatural. .?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (understanding)
dialog: Or cheap parlor tricks to conceal
dialog: your trues identity.., Ras?
text: Ducard (THE REAL RAS AL GHUL) smiles acknowledgment.
speaker_heading: DUCARD/RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Surely you dont begrudge me dual
dialog: identities?
text: Ras Al Ghul walks Wayne through the dwindling party.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 123.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Ive been admiring your work, even
dialog: as its interfered with my plans...
text: Ras Al Ghul looks at Wayne with a tinge of sadness.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: You were my greatest student...
dialog: until you betrayed me.
text: Wayne notices CERTAIN GUESTS staring at him: members of the
text: League of Shadows. Wayne looks at the departing Guests.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Your quarrel is with me. Let these
dialog: people go.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: AS you wish. But they dont have
dialog: long to live- your antics at the
dialog: Asylum have forced my hand...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Crane was working for you.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: His toxin is derived from the
dialog: organic compound in our blue
dialog: poppies. Crane was able weaponize
dialog: the compound. A brilliant
text: scientist, but no visionary. He
dialog: just wanted money and power-
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: I told him the plan was to hold the
dialog: city to ransom... but, in fact-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre going to unleash Cranes
dialog: poison on the entire city...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: (nods, serious)
text: Then watch Gotham tear itself apart
dialog: through fear...
scene_heading: 258 EXT. BRIDGE TO THE NARROWS/ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 258
text: COP CARS BLOCK the bridge. Police in RIOT GEAR, some on
text: HORSEBACK. Rachel argues with a POLICE OFFICER.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 124,
speaker_heading: POLICE OFFICER
dialog: Orders are, no one crosses-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Officer, Im a Gotham City District
dialog: Attorney with information relevant
dialog: to this situation- so let me pass.
text: Rachel brushes past him. He follows, shaking his head.
scene_heading: 259 INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 259
text: Wayne and Ras enter. The library is empty of guest.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre going to destroy millions of
dialog: lives.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: No. Billions of lives. Gotham is
dialog: just the beginning. The world will
dialog: watch in terror as the greatest
text: city falls. Anarchy and chaos will
dialog: spread... mankind will ravage
dialog: itself, the species will be culled
text: and the balance of nature restored.
dialog: The planet will be saved for all
dialog: species.
text: Wayne stares at Ras appalled.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Youre inhuman.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Dont question my humanity,
dialog: Brucewhen I found you in that fetid
dialog: hole you were lost. I saved you- I
dialog: showed you a path and took away
dialog: your fear- I made you what you are.
dialog: (stares at Wayne)
dialog: And in return... you attacked me
dialog: and burned my home...
text: Ras looks up at his MEN in the gallery. Nods. The Men start
text: SETTING FIRE TO THE DRAPES.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Since then, youve used my skills
dialog: and techniques to interfere with my
dialog: plans, plans in which you were
dialog: supposed to play a part...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 260
dialog: 261
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 125.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What part was that, Ras? To put my
dialog: company at your disposal? To obtain
dialog: your microwave emitter and plant it
dialog: somewhere in Gotham?
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: (smiles, nods)
dialog: You were supposed to be Gothams
dialog: destroyer... instead you became her
dialog: only protector.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You underestimate Gotham.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: You underestimate Gothams
dialog: corruptionweve infiltrated every
dialog: aspect of the citys
dialog: infrastructure...
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 260
text: Four SWATS are guarding the Emitter. One of them checks his
text: watch. Gives a signal to the SECOND SWAT who nods and starts
text: priming the machine... The Third SWAT turns-
speaker_heading: THIRD SWAT
dialog: Hey! What the hell are you-
text: PHUUUT. The Fourth SWAT has shot him with a silenced pistol.
text: Moving with military precision, the three Ninja/SWATS don
text: gas masks place explosive charges along the wall.
dialog: 110.
scene_heading: INT. MONORAIL STATION -- CONTINUOUS 261
text: The TRAIN DRIVER checks his watch. Hits the INTERCOM.
speaker_heading: TRAIN DRIVER
dialog: (over loudspeaker )
text: This train is no longer in service.
text: PASSENGERS groan, get to their feet.
dialog: 126.
scene_heading: 262 INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 262
text: The FLAMES ARE RISING. SMOKE GATHERING at the ceiling...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Gotham is helpless without you.
dialog: Thats why Im here.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To kill me?
text: Ras Al Ghul looks at Wayne. Emotional.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: To bring you back to us, Bruce. The
dialog: world will need great men like you-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To take power.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: This is not about power... this is
dialog: about saving the planet before man
text: destroys it with his greed, with
dialog: his pollution, with his weaponry...
text: Ras holds out his hand. A Ninja THROWS him a SWORD. He
text: HANDS it to Wayne, placing the point at his own throat.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: You still doubt me? Apply a few
dialog: pounds of pressure... buy your
text: precious city a reprieve.
text: Ras looks into Waynes eyes with absolute conviction.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Kill me. Then you11 understand how
dialog: simple it is to do whats
dialog: necessary.
text: Wayne holds the sword at Ras throat. Thinking. Ras stares
text: at Wayne with absolute conviction.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I will not take life. I will not be
dialog: a part of this.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: But you already are. Youve given
dialog: Gotham a potent symbol of fear...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 263
dialog: 264
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 127.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I frighten criminals.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: You frighten everybody. A giant
dialog: vengeful bat? What better
text: apocalyptic symbol to haunt
text: Gothams dreams as panic takes
dialog: hold?
text: Wayne stares at Ras Al Ghul. Pulls the sword away from his
text: throat. Ras Al Ghul looks at him, contemptuous. Pulls at
text: the handle of his cane, producing a SWORD.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Then die with Gotham-
text: Ras STRIKES Waynes sword from his throat- lays into him,
text: sword in one hand, CANE/SHEATH in the other-
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 263
text: Gordon turns. Rachel is there. He nods.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: How are you?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Better. Thank you.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Thank the Batman.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I already did.
dialog: (reaches into pocket)
dialog: He sent me with doses of the
dialog: antidote for you...
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 264
text: The Ninja/SWATS crouch away from the back wall. One of them
text: HITS a DETONATOR. A controlled EXPLOSION BLASTS a large hole
dialog: in the back wall-
dialog: 265
speaker_heading: 266
speaker_heading: 267
speaker_heading: 268
speaker_heading: 269
dialog: 128.
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 265
text: The Cops react to the EXPLOSION- Gordon RACES into the
dialog: building...
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Gordon, wait!
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 266
text: Gordon and his men appear at the door to the room- the
text: Ninja/SWATS are moving the Emitter through the hole in the
text: wall- Gordon OPENS FIRE- the First Ninja/Swat turns to the
dialog: second, SIGNALS...
scene_heading: The Second Ninja/Swat ACTIVATES the Emitter- A PULSE OF
scene_heading: ENERGY RIPPLES FROM THE MACHINE... PIPES/TAPS/DRAINS EXPLODE
text: with pressurized STEAM- Gordon DIVES for cover-
scene_heading: EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 267
scene_heading: Manhole covers EXPLODE, RELEASING GEYSERS of STEAM. FIRE
text: HYDRANTS EXPLODE, HISSING with steam- Cops hit the deck...
scene_heading: INT. WATER BOARD CONTROL ROOM -- CONTINUOUS 268
text: An ALARM SOUNDS- the Technician points at a DOT on the map.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Whats that?!
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: Some kind of pressure under the
dialog: Narrows... like the waters...
dialog: (confused)
dialog: ... boiling.
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Did the valves hold?
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: Yeah, its contained. For now.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE TO ARKHAM/NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 269
text: Cops STARE at the cloud of FOG rising from the island.
dialog: 270
speaker_heading: 271
dialog: 129.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 270
text: Ras throws himself at Wayne with FEROCITY and SKILL- Wayne
scene_heading: PARRIES, THRUSTS...
text: WAVES of flame ROLL across the high ceiling as the great
text: room approaches flashover point...
text: Wayne PRESSES Ras back under the gallery... Ras THRUSTS,
text: OFF BALANCE- Wayne dodges- Ras goes DOWN- Wayne holds his
text: sword at Ras throat...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Perhaps you taught me too well.
text: Ras looks up at Wayne with a sly smile.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Or perhaps you1l never learn-
text: A section of the BURNING GALLERY DROPS onto Wayne.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: -to mind your surroundings as well
dialog: as your opponent.
text: Ras RISES. Looks down at Wayne, unconscious, PINNED under
text: BURNING TIMBERS. Firelight flickers on Ras face as he
text: sheathes his sword/cane.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Rest easy, friend.
text: Ras turns, walks out of the flaming library.
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT DOOR, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 271
text: Ras walks out of the burning building. Motions to a Ninja.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: No one comes out. Make sure.
text: He walks towards a waiting HELICOPTER. Another Ninja
text: follows.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Is everything ready?
speaker_heading: NINJA 2
dialog: They created a smokescreen in the
dialog: Narrows- and theyre moving the
dialog: emitter into place for your run.
dialog: 272
speaker_heading: 273
speaker_heading: 274
dialog: 275
speaker_heading: 276
dialog: 130.
scene_heading: INT. MONORAIL TRACK ABOVE FOGBOUND NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 272
text: The Train Driver looks down at Arkham as he pulls overhead
text: with his empty train. He STOPS the train above the Narrows.
scene_heading: INT. BATH HOUSE, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 273
text: Thick clouds of WHITE FOG fill the room. Gordon is
scene_heading: CHOKING... RACHEL GRABS HIS ARM-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Gordon, its me! Its Rachel! I
dialog: have the antidote! Gordon-
text: Gordon RIPS his arm away- COUGHING, SPLUTTERING... he STARES
text: into the BLINDING WHITE... TERRIFIED, adrenaline kicking in-
text: Rachel SHAKES Gordon, FUMBLING with the pneumatic syringe.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Stay calm... I can help you...
text: Gordon looks at the needle, panicked. Then at her face...
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 274
text: Wayne, unconscious, PINNED by burning timbers, FLAMES
speaker_heading: RISING.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE DOOR, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 275
text: A Ninja guards the side door, STARING into the flames...
text: WHACK! He goes down... ALFRED is standing there, nine iron
text: in hand. He looks down at the Ninja.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I sincerely hope youre not from
dialog: the fire department.
text: Alfred rushes in to the burning house.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY, WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 276
text: Alfred moves to Wayne, tries in vain to shift the BURNING
text: WOOD from Waynes chest. He moves to Waynes face. SLAPS IT,
speaker_heading: HARD.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne! Master Wayne!!
text: Waynes eyes flicker open. He PUSHES, but cant move.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 277
dialog: 278
speaker_heading: 279
dialog: 280
speaker_heading: 281
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 131.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: (exasperated)
dialog: Sir, whatever is the point of all
dialog: those push-ups if you cant even-
text: Wayne GLARES at Alfred, FORCES the weight from his chest.
scene_heading: INT. STUDY -- CONTINUOUS 277
text: Wayne and Alfred push through the burning room. Wayne JABS
text: at the flaming piano keys...
scene_heading: INT. WROUGHT IRON SPIRAL STAIRCASE -- CONTINUOUS 278
text: Alfred and Wayne CRAWL onto the lift.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR -- CONTINUOUS 279
text: The burning house COLLAPSES. .
scene_heading: INT. WROUGHT IRON SPIRAL STAIRCASE -- CONTINUOUS 280
text: Smoke and flame EXPLODES through the passage- Alfred YANKS
text: the lever DROPPING them out of the heat- they SPEED DOWN...
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE -- CONTINUOUS 281
text: LANDING HARD. Smoldering. Wayne STARES up the SPIRAL: high
text: above, SPARKS and firelight. The CRASH of collapsing TIMBERS
text: echoes down as WAYNE MANOR DIES. Tears form in Waynes eyes.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: What have I done, Alfred?
dialog: Everything my family... everything
dialog: my Father and his father built...
text: Alfred struggles to pull himself to a standing position.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (hoarse)
dialog: The Wayne legacy is more than
dialog: bricks and mortar, sir.
text: Wayne stares up at the glowing shaft. Lost in his despair.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 282
speaker_heading: 283
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 132.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I thought I could... help Gotham...
dialog: but Ive failed...
text: Alfred makes a futile show of dusting down his jacket.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And why do we fall, sir?
text: Wayne looks at Alfreds bruised, smudged, yet dignified
dialog: face.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONTD)
dialog: So that we might better learn to
dialog: pick ourselves up.
text: Wayne looks up at his old friend.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Still havent given up on me?
text: Alfred offers him a trembling hand.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (conviction)
dialog: Never.
text: Wayne takes Alfreds hand. Gets up.
scene_heading: EXT. THE FOGBOUND NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 282
text: Ninjas in gas masks move the Emitter into position UNDER THE
text: MONORAIL TRAIN. The bind it into a HOIST.
scene_heading: EXT. THE NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 283
text: Rachel injects Gordon. He stares into her eyes, questioning.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Breathe. Just breathe.
text: NOISES draw Gordons frightened eyes to shape of COPS
text: choking on the fog, SHOUTING. FIGHTING. Rachel pulls Gordon
text: to his feet- heads for the hole in the wall...
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Come on.
speaker_heading: 284
dialog: 285
dialog: 286
speaker_heading: 287
dialog: 288
speaker_heading: 289
dialog: 133.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE TO ARKHAM/NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 284
text: Loeb and a LIEUTENANT get out of a car at the blockade.
text: Starring across: FOG HANGS OVER THE ISLAND.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: What in Gods name is going on in
dialog: there?
scene_heading: EXT. THE NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 285
text: As Rioters FLIT past through the fog either side, Rachel
text: DRAGS Gordon into a doorway... She looks up into the fog.
text: Sees the Ninjas hoisting the emitter up to the monorail...
scene_heading: INT. FOGBOUND ARKHAM ASYLUM -- EVENING 286
text: An INMATE at the window of his cell. A CLUNK- he turns- his
text: cell door is OPEN. He looks out into the corridors...
scene_heading: INT. MIST-FILLED CORRIDOR, ARKHAM ASYLUM -- CONTINUOUS 287
text: Crane, in Scarecrow mask, RINGS down the corridor, LAUGHING,
dialog: unlocked each door in turn.
speaker_heading: INMATE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Scarecrow.
text: Inmates emerge from their cells, confused.
scene_heading: INT. THE BATCAVE -- CONTINUOUS 288
text: CLOSE ON: black scalloped GAUNTLETS thrust onto purposeful
text: hands. A dark CLOAK whipped around strong shoulders. A
text: graphite COWL placed over an implacable face.
text: A DARK FIGURE swallowed by the gloom. BATS flutter as an
text: ENGINE ROARS to life...
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFALL -- CONTINUOUS 289
text: MOVING IN on water tumbling hypnotically...
text: The Batmobile EXPLODES through the water, ROCKETING onto the
text: opposite bank.
dialog: 290
speaker_heading: 291
dialog: 292
speaker_heading: 293
dialog: 294
dialog: 134.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER ABOVE FOGBOUND NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 290
text: Ras Al Ghul puts on a gas mask as the helicopter descends.
scene_heading: EXT. FOGBOUND NARROWS -- NIGHT 291
text: Rachel sits up from Gordon. Hears something: a DRAGGING
text: NOISE behind her. She turns, stepping away from Gordon...
text: A HORSE emerges from the fog. Crane is riding; in Scarecrow
text: mask. DRAGGING along behind, boot caught in the stirrup, a
text: dead MOUNTED POLICEMAN. CRANE TURNS TO RACHEL.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Crane!
text: Crane shakes his head.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: (hisses)
dialog: Scarecrow.
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDGE TO ARKHAM/NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 292
text: Loeb with a LIEUTENANT, watching the fog hang over the
dialog: island.
text: They head a massive ENGINE, turn, BLINDED by headlights...
text: the Batmobile RACES at the cordon, SHOOTS over the cars,
text: clipping the roofs, Cops DIVING out of the way...
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY, FOGBOUND NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 293
text: The too-wide Batmobile RIPS metal sheets and drywall from
text: both sides of the tiny alley- RIOTING INHABITANTS run
text: SCREAMING- the Batmobile is heading for a dead end...
scene_heading: EXT. COURTYARD, FOGBOUND NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 294
text: Crane GALLOPS towards Rachel and Gordon and STOPS. Rioters
text: emerge behind them... he REARS UP to STAMP RACHEL AND
speaker_heading: GORDON -
text: Rachel fires her taser, plugging Crane in the face- he
text: JERKS, SPASM- the HORSE BOLTS, THROWING him, DRAGGING HIM
text: OFF INTO THE FOG..
text: Rachel watches him disappear. Then sees the Lunatics closing
dialog: in on all sides...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 295
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 135.
text: The Batmobile SMASHES THROUGH THE WALL- Lunatics closing in
dialog: on all sides...
text: The Batmobile opens- Batman emerges- runs to Rachel...
text: A BRICK smashes into Batmans head. He TURNS to the Rioters
text: STARING at him, TERRIFIED. Batman RISES in the mist... to
dialog: their eyes:
text: Batman is a twelve-foot shadowy devil with WINGS...
text: They fling bricks, bottles, fighting off the demon. Batman
text: GRABS Rachel, FIRES his grappling gun up into the fog... it
text: finds purchase- they SHOOT UP FROM THE MOB-
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP -- MOMENTS LATER 295
text: Batman sets Rachel down, looks out at Gotham: the Narrows
text: below steaming, burning, screaming. The rest of Gotham
speaker_heading: WAITS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Theyre going to unleash the toxin
dialog: on the entire city. I have to find
dialog: the microwave emitter...
speaker_heading: RACHEL
text: They were lifting a machine up to
dialog: the tracks...
text: Batman TURNS to face Rachel, realizing-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Of course- the monorail. The track
text: runs directly over the water
dialog: Mains...
text: Batman turns to the city, stares at the wide sweep of the
text: monorail tracks. The "spoke" that lead in to Wayne Tower...
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: Hes going to drive that thing
text: straight into Wayne Tower and blow
dialog: the main hub, creating enough toxin
dialog: to blanket the entire city...
dialog: 296
speaker_heading: 297
speaker_heading: 298
speaker_heading: 299
dialog: 136.
scene_heading: INT. MONORAIL TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 296
text: Ras Al Ghul climbs onto the train with three MASKED NINJAS.
text: The narrow-band emitter fills the front car. Pulsing with
text: energy. Ras moves to the drivers position...
scene_heading: EXT. THE NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 297
text: Gordon looks up- the train moves overhead... as it passes,
text: manhole covers EXPLODE in its wake, sending up fresh GEYSERS
text: of STEAM... Gordon watches the train go... starts RUNNING...
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD -- CONTINUOUS 298
text: ALARMS sound- the Technician looks at the map- lights FLASH.
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: Whats that?
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: The pressures increasing... and
dialog: its... Moving.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP -- CONTINUOUS 299
text: Batman stands at the edge- looks at the IMPOSSIBLE DROP to
text: the moving monorail train...
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Wait!
text: Batman TURNS. Rachel stares at his eyes in the black cowl,
text: reaches up to his face.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: You could die. At least tell me
dialog: your name.
text: Batman turns. Looks back at her.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Its not who I am underneath...
dialog: (touches his chest)
dialog: But what I do that defines me.
text: Rachel steps forward, recognizing her own words, REALIZING-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce-
text: But he is already FALLING...
dialog: 300
speaker_heading: 301
dialog: 302
speaker_heading: 303
dialog: 304
dialog: 137.
scene_heading: EXT. OVER GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 300
text: Batman FREE FALLS, cloak flapping, sliding his gloves into
dialog: the activating pockets...
text: The cloak goes RIGID- SMASHING THE WIND LIKE A PARACHUTE...
text: Batmans arms CONTROL his cloak, not simply arresting his
text: fall, but GLIDING GRACEFULLY like a hand glider...
text: He eyes the moving train and NOSES DOWN, ACCELERATING-
scene_heading: INT. MONORAIL TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 301
text: Ras pulls off his mask, watching the city speed around him.
scene_heading: INT. SEDAN ON THE BRIDGE TO THE NARROWS -- CONTINUOUS 302
text: Flass is in the drivers seat, eating. Gordon opens the door
dialog: GRABS him-
speaker_heading: FLASS
dialog: What the-?
text: -FLINGS him out onto the asphalt- PEELS OUT...
dialog: 120.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 303
text: Batman STREAKS DOWN, CUTTING through the STEAM GEYSERS
text: shooting up in the trains wake... the train SPEEDS through
text: a station- Batman BANKS SHARPLY around the building...
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD -- CONTINUOUS 304
text: The Technician stares at the map: BLINKING LIGHTS reach
text: CLOSER AND CLOSER to Wayne Tower...
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
text: Pressures building at the hub-
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: Open all the run-off valves!
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: Theyre already blown!
text: The Technician, worried, looks at a PRESSURE GAUGE: the
text: NEEDLE is moving steadily HIGHER, towards the RED ZONE...
dialog: 305
dialog: 306
dialog: 307
dialog: 308
speaker_heading: 309
dialog: 138.
scene_heading: EXT. MONORAIL TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 305
text: The track ahead passes into an office building- Batman noses
text: down- trying to get down onto the train before it reaches
text: the building... Batman gets OVER the back of the train-its
text: at the mouth of the tunnel- he COLLAPSES his cloak- DROPS
text: onto the train just as it BLASTS into the building-
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 306
text: Ras hears a THUMP. He nods at his Ninjas. They move into
text: the rear car, COCKING machine guns...
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 307
text: Batman lies on the roof- the train SPEEDS through the
text: CANYONS of downtown Gotham... BULLETS tear through the roof,
text: several HIT BATMAN- JOLTING him loose, spinning his
speaker_heading: SIDEWAYS -
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 308
text: The ninjas see a SHADOW FALL FROM THE ROOF. One of them
text: sticks his head up to check: nothing but fresh bullet holes.
text: At the Ninjas feet, UNNOTICED, a GRAPPLING HOOK sticks
text: through the FLOOR of the train-
scene_heading: EXT. SURFACE STREETS BELOW THE MONORAIL -- CONTINUOUS 309
text: A small CROWD outside a store watch news on stacked T.V.s.
text: The train STREAKS overhead. People look up, SHOCKED to see-
text: Batman HANGING FROM THE TRAIN BY HIS GRAPPLING CABLE, FLYING
text: ALONG, 15 feet in the air, dodging STOPLIGHTS and AWNINGS...
text: The Train crosses over a busy intersection- Batman FLIES
text: over CARS, between tall TRUCKS... behind him, in the trains
text: wake, manhole covers EXPLODE, fire hydrants BURST...
text: Batman STRUGGLES to fasten his grappling gun into his
text: utility belt, but hes being TOSSED too violently...
text: Up ahead: more of Ras Al Ghuls Ninjas ride in a truck
text: preceding the train, guarding the monorail supports.
dialog: 310
speaker_heading: 311
dialog: 312
dialog: 139.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET BELOW THE MONORAIL -- CONTINUOUS 310
text: In the truck, a Ninja puts a rocket-propelled grenade
text: launcher on his shoulder, sighting Batman- the others aim
dialog: their guns.
text: A CURVE in the truck sends Batman SWINGING UP into the glass
text: facade of a building, SMASHING ALONG THROUGH forty feet of
text: plate glass... he clears the glass, looks ahead- sees the
text: truck in his path, WEAPONS TRAINED ON HIM...
text: The machine guns open up- the TRIGGER of the RPG is
speaker_heading: SQUEEZED -
text: BLAM- with a SHUDDER the truck is KNOCKED SIDEWAYS by a
text: SPEEDING unmarked sedan- the grenade MISFIRES into the
dialog: cab...
text: GORDON is at the wheel of the unmarked sedan- he DUCKS DOWN-
text: the truck EXPLODES... Batman FLIES THROUGH THE FLAMES...
text: On the other side, the track DEAD ENDS at another tunnel...
text: Gordon looks up in time to see Batman LATCH the grappling
text: gun into his belt- SHOOT UP, SKIRTING the lip of the
dialog: tunnel...
scene_heading: INT. TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 311
text: Batman JUMPS into the rear car- FIRES his grappling gun at a
text: Ninjas leg, YANKS him DOWN...
text: Ras glances back from the front car, but cant see clearly.
text: Batman DOWNS a Ninja with an ELBOW to the head. LEAPS for
text: the door between cars- a Ninja in the front car LOCKS it-
text: SMASH- Ras TURNS to see Batman at the rear door, glass
text: falling from the window, hands around the Ninjas THROAT...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: You!
text: Batman DROPS the Ninja. LEADS UP out of sight.
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD -- CONTINUOUS 312
text: ALARMS: The technician watches the blinking lights move
text: CLOSE to the HUB... the pressure gauge needle tips into the
speaker_heading: RED-
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 313
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 140.
speaker_heading: FIRST TECHNICIAN
dialog: Everybody out! Out of the
dialog: building! !
speaker_heading: SECOND TECHNICIAN
dialog: But -
speaker_heading: FIRST TECHNICIAN
text: Were sitting on the hub- shes
dialog: gonna blow and blow big,
dialog: understand?
scene_heading: EXT. MONORAIL TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 313
text: Batman moves forward along the roof, cloak FLAPPING madly
text: behind. Wayne Tower visible up ahead, the train STREAKING
text: DIZZYINGLY through the tight CANYONS of Gotham...
text: Ras Al Ghul climbs up onto the roof at the front of the
text: train. Standing tall before Gotham, long coat blowing around
text: his legs. He marvels at Batman.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: You took my advice about
dialog: theatricality a bit literally,
dialog: dont you think?
text: He draws his sword from his cane. Batman LUNGES at Ras, who
text: SWINGS his sword at him- Batman PARRIES with his gauntlet,
text: SPARKS striking off the metal scallops.
text: The train SHOOTS through a building, the airflow WHUMPING
dialog: down on the duelists...
text: Ras SWINGS his cane- Batman TRAPS it in his scallop- TWISTS
text: his arm- sends the cane SPINNING away.
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Familiar...
text: Ras THRUSTS his sword at Batmans chest, Batman DODGES
text: left, dangerously close to the EDGE. He DUCKS at Ras, who
text: KNEES him sideways, SWINGING him at the FRONT EDGE of the
dialog: train...
text: Batman REGAINS FOOTING- Ras STRIKES DOWN at his head...
text: Batman CROSSES HIS ARMS, CATCHING THE SWORD in the scallops
text: of BOTH gauntlets, HOLDING FAST...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL (CONTD)
dialog: Dont you have anything new?
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 314
dialog: 315
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 141.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: How about this?
text: Batman YANKS his ARMS in OPPOSITE directions, BREAKING RAS
text: AL GHULS SWORD IN Two.
text: Ras STUMBLES back, loses footing, SLIPS onto the roof,
text: SLIDING back toward the rear...
text: Batman looks ahead to Wayne Tower approaching...
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD, WAYNE TOWER -- CONTINUOUS 314
text: The first technician watches the pressure gauge needle slide
text: up through the red. He CLOSES HIS EYES.
scene_heading: EXT. TRAIN -- CONTINUOUS 315
text: Batman leans over the front of train- FIRES his GRAPPLING
text: GUN into the front GUIDE WHEELS- which JAM, SPARKING,
text: GRINDING... cable SPOOLS out of the grappling gun... the
dialog: train SHUDDERS...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: (climbing to his feet)
dialog: Whatre you doing?! !
text: Batman THROWS the grappling gun at the SPARKING guide
dialog: wheel...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Whats necessary.
text: The guide wheel HITS the grappling gun- BUMPS OFF ITS
text: TRACK...
text: Ras DIVES onto Batman- SMASHES him against the roof- the
text: train LURCHES, SCRAPING against the concrete guiderails...
text: Batman ROLLS Ras onto the bottom- but Ras is CHOKING
text: Batman, THUMBS PUSHED DEEP INTO THE FLESH ABOVE BATMANS
text: NECKPIECE...
text: Batman STRUGGLES uselessly against Ras Al Ghul IRON GRIP...
speaker_heading: RAS AL GHUL
dialog: Are you afraid?! !
text: Ras looks up at Batmans DYING eyes... Batmans hands STOP
dialog: PUSHING against Ras...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
dialog: 316
speaker_heading: 317
speaker_heading: 318
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 142.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (choked)
dialog: Yes...
text: ...and slip down his cloak to the activating pockets-
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONTD)
dialog: ...but not of you.
text: The cloak goes RIGID- CATCHES THE WIND- like pulling a rip
text: cord- Batman YANKED from Ras Al Ghuls hands, INTO THE
dialog: AIR...
text: Ras SCREAMS as he rides the train OFF THE MONORAIL...
text: CRASHING DOWN INTO WAYNE PLAZA- DIGGING THROUGH THE
scene_heading: CONCRETEMETAL SHREDDING, MARBLE SHATTERING, DUST CLOUDS
text: FLYING, PARKED CARS EXPLODING...
text: The Train has disintegrated into burning rubble just short
dialog: of the entrance to Wayne Station...
scene_heading: INT. CONTROL ROOM, WATER BOARD, WAYNE TOWER -- CONTINUOUS 316
text: The Technician opens one eye. Then the other. And starts
text: breathing again.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE PLAZA -- CONTINUOUS 317
text: Massive fiery destruction. And above it all-
text: Batman SOARS in a high bank, riding the thermals, staring
dialog: down at Ras Al Ghuls funeral pyre... And we-
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE PLAZA -- MORNING, DAYS LATER 318
text: Construction CREWS clear the RUBBLE, Lucius Fox, in hard
text: hat, supervises. Earle approaches, livid. Fox spots him.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: This is a hard hat area.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: What are you doing here, Fox? I
dialog: seem to remember firing you.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 319
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 143.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Might be something to do with my
dialog: new job as head of Wayne
dialog: Industries.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Didnt you get the memo?
text: Earle stares at Fox, hard.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Whose authority?
text: Fox points at Waynes Rolls Royce idling nearby. Earle
text: strides towards it. Fox quietly smiles, turns to his work.
scene_heading: INT. ROLLS -- CONTINUOUS 319
text: Earle is BANGING on the window. Wayne rolls it down.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: You think you have authority to
dialog: decide who runs this company,
dialog: Bruce?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It is my company.
speaker_heading: EARLE
dialog: Not anymore. Wayne Industries went
dialog: public a week ago-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And I bought most of the shares. A
dialog: controlling interest, in fact.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Through various charitable
dialog: foundations, trusts and so forth...
text: Alfred is smiling in the front seat.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONTD)
dialog: Look, its all a bit technical, but
dialog: the important thing is.... my
text: companys future is secure.
text: Earle is speechless. Wayne smiles. The Rolls pulls away.
dialog: 320
speaker_heading: 321
dialog: 322
speaker_heading: 323
dialog: 144.
scene_heading: EXT. GROUNDS, SMOKING RUINS OF WAYNE MANOR -- DAY 320
text: WORKERS sift through the smoking ruins, supervised by
dialog: Alfred.
scene_heading: INT. ORANGERY -- CONTINUOUS 321
text: Soot-stained glass crunches underfoot as Rachel picks her
text: way through the smoking remnants of the greenhouse.
scene_heading: EXT. DISUSED KITCHEN GARDEN -- CONTINUOUS 322
text: Rachel finds Wayne hammering a board across the disused
text: well. He looks up at her. She approaches. He turns to the
dialog: well.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Do you remember the day I fell?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Of course.
text: Wayne looks down at the black gap yet to be covered.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: As I lay there, I knew... I could
dialog: sense it...
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That things would never be the
dialog: same.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What did you find down there? Wayne
text: picks up another board.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Childhoods end.
text: Wayne places the board over over the gap. Closing the well.
scene_heading: EXT. SMOKING RUINS OF WAYNE MANOR -- MOMENTS LATER 323
text: Wayne walks Rachel past the ruins.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 145.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: The day you left Gotham... the day
dialog: Chill was murdered... I said
dialog: terrible things.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: True things. You made me see that
dialog: justice is about more than my own
text: pain and anger.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Well, you proved me wrong.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Your father would be proud of you.
dialog: Just as I am.
text: Wayne looks at her, emotion rising. He takes Rachel in his
text: arms and they kiss, passionately... desperately.
text: They break, Wayne looks into Rachels eyes, hopeful. But she
text: gently shakes her head.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: (soft)
dialog: Between Batman and Bruce Wayne,
dialog: theres no room for me.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel, this life I chose... I can
dialog: give it up.
text: Rachel reaches up to his face with her hand.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You didnt choose the life, Bruce.
dialog: It was thrust upon you, the way
dialog: greatness often is. Youve given
dialog: this city hope- now shes depending
dialog: on you. We all are.
text: Wayne looks at her. Aching. He nods.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: Good-bye, Bruce.
text: She walks away. Stops. Turns. Points at the ruins.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: 324
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 146.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONTD)
dialog: What will you do?
text: Wayne looks at her. Glorious purpose in his eyes.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Im going to rebuild it just the
dialog: way it was. Brick for brick.
text: Rachel nods. Walks off. Wayne stares after her. Alone...
text: But Alfred is at Waynes shoulder. Watching his gaze.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Just the way it was, sir?
text: Wayne turns to Alfred.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yes, why?
text: They stroll, side by side, towards the smoking ruins.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I thought we might take the
dialog: opportunity of making some
dialog: improvements to the foundation.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: In the south east corner?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Precisely, sir.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
text: The irregular SHADOW of a BAT SYMBOL cast up onto turbulent
dialog: clouds... and we are-
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF, POLICE STATION -- NIGHT 324
text: Gordon sips coffee from a styrofoam cup. Beside him- an
text: upturned spotlight with a METAL STENCIL bolted to it.
text: A dark FLUTTERING, and Batman is standing the other side of
text: the spotlight. He reaches out, taps the stencil.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nice.
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (2) 147.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (crushing his cup)
dialog: Couldnt find any mob bosses to
text: strap to the light.
text: Gordon kills the searchlight. The two men stand opposite
text: each other in the dark.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Well, Sergeant?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Its Lieutenant, now. Commissioner
dialog: Loeb had to promote me. And he had
dialog: to disband the task force hunting
dialog: you. Amazing what saving a city can
dialog: do for your image.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Then things are better.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (nods)
dialog: Youve started something- bent cops
text: running scared, hope on the
dialog: streets...
text: Gordon leaves his sentence hanging between them.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: But?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: But theres a lot of weirdness out
dialog: there right now... the Narrows is
dialog: dost... we still havent picked up
dialog: Crane or half the inmates of Arkham
dialog: that he freed...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: We will. Gotham will return to
dialog: normal.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Will it? What about escalation?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Escalation?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We start carrying semiautomatics,
dialog: they buy automatics... we start
dialog: wearing kevlar, they buy
text: armorpiercing rounds...
speaker_heading: (CONTINUED)
speaker_heading: CONTINUED: (3) 148.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And?
text: Gordon leans closer to Batman. Points at him.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: And... youre wearing a mask and
text: jumping off rooftops...
text: Gordon fishes in his pocket.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: Take this guy...
text: He pulls out a clear plastic evidence bag.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: ...armed robbery, double
dialog: homicide...
text: Inside the clear plastic bag is a PLAYING CARD.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
dialog: Got a taste for theatrics, like
dialog: you...
text: Gordon hands Batman the bag.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONTD)
text: Leaves a calling card.
text: Batman turns the card over. It is a JOKER.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I11 look into it.
text: He steps up onto the balustrade. Gordon looks at him.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I never said thank you.
text: Batman looks out at the lights of Gotham. Cloak billowing
text: around him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And you1l1 never have to.
text: Batman DROPS from the rooftop, GLIDING on the night wind.
text: Gordon smiles. He cant help it.
speaker_heading: FADE OUT:
text: BURNING. Massive flames. A dark shape emerges- The BAT
text: SYMBOL. Growing. Filling the screen with BLACKNESS.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: DAYLIGHT. Moving over the towers of downtown Gotham...
text: Closing in on an office building... On a large window...
dialog: Which SHATTERS to reveal-
scene_heading: 1 INT. OFFICE, HIGH RISE -- DAY 1
text: A man in a CLOWN MASK holding a SMOKING SILENCED PISTOL ejects
text: a shell casing. This is DOPEY. He turns to a second man,
text: HAPPY, also in clown mask, who steps forward with a CABLE
text: LAUNCHER, aims at a lower roof across the street and FIRES a
text: cable across. Dopey secures the line to an I-beam line-
text: CLAMP on- sends a KIT BAG out then steps OUT the window...
scene_heading: 2 EXT. HIGH-RISE -- DAY 2
text: ...into space. The men SLIDE across the DIZZYING DROP...
text: landing on the lower roof across the street.
scene_heading: 3 EXT. DOWNTOWN GOTHAM -- DAY 3
text: A MAN on the corner, back to us, holding a CLOWN MASK. An
text: SUV pulls up. The man gets in, puts on his mask. Inside
text: the car- two other men wearing CLOWN MASKS.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: Three of a kind. Let's do this.
text: One of the Clowns looks up from loading his automatic weapon.
speaker_heading: CHUCKLES
dialog: That's it? Three guys?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 2.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: There's two on the roof. Every guy
dialog: is an extra share. Five shares is
dialog: plenty.
speaker_heading: CHUCKLES
dialog: Six shares. Don't forget the guy
dialog: who planned the job.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: Yeah? He thinks he can sit it out
dialog: and still take a slice, then I get
dialog: why they call him the Joker.
text: Grumpy cocks his weapon. Bozo pulls the car over in front
text: of the GOTHAM FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
scene_heading: 4 EXT. ROOFTOP, BANK -- CONTINUOUS 4
dialog: Dopey PRIES open an access panel-
speaker_heading: HAPPY
dialog: Why do they call him the Joker?
speaker_heading: DOPEY
dialog: I heard he wears make-up.
speaker_heading: HAPPY
dialog: Make-up?
text: Dopey pulls out thick bundles of blue CAT 5 cables.
speaker_heading: DOPEY
dialog: Yeah. To scare people. War paint.
scene_heading: 5 EXT. BANK -- CONTINUOUS 5
text: Grumpy, Chuckles and Bozo get out of the car and march into
speaker_heading: the bank CARRYING ASSAULT RIFLES--
speaker_heading: 6 INT. BANK -- DAY 6
text: The Security Guard looks up- Grumpy FIRES into the ceiling.
text: Customers SCREAM. Chuckles CRACKS the Security Guard.
dialog: As Grumpy and Bozo round up the hostages, one of the TELLERS
text: presses a button mounted beneath her window- a SILENT ALARM.
speaker_heading: 7 EXT. ROOFTOP -- DAY 7
text: Dopey watches the alarm PING his handheld.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 3.
speaker_heading: DOPEY
dialog: Here comes the silent alarm.
dialog: (touches a button)
dialog: And there it goes. That's funny.
dialog: It didn't dial out to 911- it was
dialog: trying to reach a private number.
text: Behind him, Happy RAISES his silenced HANDGUN.
speaker_heading: HAPPY
dialog: Is it a problem?
speaker_heading: DOPEY
dialog: No, no. I'm done here.
text: Happy SHOOTS. Dopey SLUMPS. Happy picks up his bag and
dialog: FORCES OPEN the roof access door...
scene_heading: 8 INT. STAIRWELL, BANK -- DAY 8
text: ...and speeds down the stairs, to the basement. He SLAMS
dialog: open the door...
scene_heading: 9 INT. VAULT ROOM, BANK -- DAY 9
text: ...and comes face to face with a huge VAULT.
scene_heading: 10 INT. LOBBY, BANK -- DAY 10
dialog: Bozo and Grumpy move down the line of hostages- Bozo hands
text: each Hostage OBJECTS from a bag. A GRENADE. Grumpy follows,
speaker_heading: PULLING THE PINS.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: Obviously, we don't want you doing
dialog: anything with your hands other than
dialog: holding on for dear life.
dialog: BLAM. Chuckles is BLOWN OFF HIS FEET- Grumpy and Bozo DIVE
dialog: for cover- the Bank Manager steps out of his office, SHOTGUN
dialog: in hand. Hostages SCRAMBLE, CLINGING their grenades...
scene_heading: 11 INT. VAULT ROOM, BANK -- DAY 11
dialog: Happy CLAMPS a DRILL to the vault- the bit SPINS- SLIDES
text: into the metal door- a BOLT of ELECTRICITY RIPS THROUGH THE
speaker_heading: DRILL,
dialog: THROWING HAPPY TO THE FLOOR--
scene_heading: 12 INT. LOBBY, BANK -- DAY 12
dialog: Grumpy and Bozo cower as the Bank Manager FIRES again.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 4.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: He's got three left?
text: Bozo raises TWO fingers. Grumpy squeezes off a SHOT. The
text: Bank Manager FIRES. FIRES again. Grumpy looks at Bozo, who
dialog: nods. Grumpy JUMPS UP.
dialog: The Bank Manager FIRES- Grumpy GRUNTS as buckshot CLIPS his
text: shoulder. FALLS. The Bank Manager moves in for the kill,
text: FUMBLING for new shells. Bozo STANDS- SHOOTS him.
text: Bozo picks up the shotgun. Grumpy checks his wound- it's
text: superficial. He struggles to his feet.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Where'd you learn to count?!
text: Bozo's mask stares him down. Grumpy heads for the stairs in
text: the back. Bozo starts loading fresh shells into the shotgun.
speaker_heading: BANK MANAGER
dialog: You have any idea who you're stealing
dialog: from? You and your friends are dead.
text: Bozo looks down at him. Says nothing.
scene_heading: 13 INT. VAULT ROOM, BANK -- DAY 13
text: Happy at the vault door, barefoot, turning the tumblers with
text: hands stuffed into his SNEAKERS. Grumpy walks in.
speaker_heading: HAPPY
dialog: They wired this thing up with 5,000
dialog: volts. What kind of bank does that?
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: A mob bank. Guess the Joker's as
dialog: crazy as they say.
text: Happy shrugs. Grips the WHEEL BOLT and SPINS it.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY (CONT'D)
dialog: Where's the alarm guy?
speaker_heading: HAPPY
dialog: Boss told me when the guy was done I
dialog: should take him out. One less share.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: Funny, he told me something similar...
text: Happy FREEZES. The wheel SPINS to a STOP- the vault DOOR
dialog: CLUNKS OPEN- Happy GRABS for his weapon- SPINS to see Grumpy
text: SHOOT. Grumpy steps over Happy into the vault...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 5.
scene_heading: 14 INT. VAULT, BANK -- DAY 14
text: ...which is filled with an eight-foot MOUNTAIN OF CASH.
scene_heading: 15 INT. LOBBY, BANK -- DAY 15
text: Grumpy walks into the lobby, straining under several DUFFELS
text: filled with cash. He DUMPS them. Looks at Bozo. LAUGHS.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: C'mon, there's a lot to carry...
scene_heading: 16 INT. LOBBY, BANK -- DAY 16
text: Bozo walks back into the lobby with two more DUFFELS. Sets
text: them down on an ENORMOUS PILE. Grumpy looks at it.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: If this guy was so smart he would
dialog: have had us bring a bigger car.
text: Grumpy JABS his pistol in Bozo's back. Takes his weapon.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm betting the Joker told you to
dialog: kill me soon as we loaded the cash.
speaker_heading: BOZO
dialog: (shakes head)
dialog: No. I kill the bus driver.
speaker_heading: GRUMPY
dialog: Bus driver? What bus-
text: Bozo steps backwards. SMASH. Hostages SCREAM as the TAIL
text: END OF A YELLOW SCHOOL BUS ROCKETS through the front of the
text: bank, SLAMMING Grumpy into the teller's window.
text: Bozo picks up Grumpy's weapon. Another clown OPENS the rear
text: door of the bus. Bozo SHOOTS him. Then loads the bags onto
text: the bus. The wounded Bank Manager watches him. In the
speaker_heading: distance: SIRENS.
speaker_heading: BANK MANAGER
dialog: Think you're smart, huh? Well, the
dialog: guy who hired you's just do the same
dialog: to you...
text: Bozo slowly shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BANK MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Sure he will. Criminals in this
dialog: town used to believe in things...
text: Bozo turns back to the Bank Manager. Crouches over him.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 6.
speaker_heading: BANK MANAGER (CONT'D)
dialog: Honor. Respect. What do you believe,
dialog: huh? What do you bel-
text: Bozo slides a GRENADE into the man's mouth. A PURPLE THREAD
text: is knotted around the pin.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I believe that what doesn't kill
dialog: you...
text: Bozo PULLS off his MASK. The Bank Manager GASPS. In the
dialog: reflections of the glass DEBRIS behind the Bank Manager we
text: see GLIMPSES of a SCARRED MOUTH and CLOWN MAKEUP. THE JOKER.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: ...simply makes you stranger.
text: The Bank Manager's eyes go wide. The Joker rises, strolls
text: towards the bus, the purple thread attached to the grenade
text: pin UNRAVELING FROM THE PURPLE LINING of his jacket as he
text: walks. The Joker climbs into the bus, SHUTS the rear door,
text: TRAPPING THE PURPLE THREAD...
scene_heading: 17 EXT. SCHOOL, GOTHAM -- DAY 17
text: Kids pour out, heading onto a long line of school buses.
scene_heading: 18 INT. BANK -- CONTINUOUS 18
text: As the bus pulls out, the purple thread PULLS THE PIN--
text: hostages scream and scurry away from the Bank Manager, who
text: shakes with fear as, with a FIZZ, the grenade does not
speaker_heading: explode, but SPEWS RED SMOKE.
speaker_heading: 19 EXT. BANK -- DAY 19
text: The School Bus pulls free of the Bank wall and pulls out
text: onto the street, SLIDING INTO THE LINE OF IDENTICAL BUSES
text: HEADING PAST THE BANK. The buses trundle past COP CARS racing
dialog: up the street... and we-
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: 20 EXT. MOVING OVER GOTHAM -- NIGHT 20
text: From the top of a brick building a SHAFT OF LIGHT comes on.
scene_heading: 21 EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS -- CONTINUOUS 21
text: A PATROLMAN looks up at the BAT-SIGNAL. Smiles. A DEALER
text: standing beside a car spots the signal. Steps back.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 7.
speaker_heading: DEALER
dialog: No, man. I don't like it tonight.
speaker_heading: BUYER
dialog: What're you, superstitious? You got
dialog: more chance of winning the powerball
dialog: than running into him...
scene_heading: 22 INT. MAJOR CRIMES UNIT, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 22
dialog: DETECTIVE RAMIREZ, female, rookie detective, 30's, makes
text: coffee, watching a news show on the television.
text: ON SCREEN: The host, MIKE ENGEL, lays into the MAYOR.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Mr Mayor, you were elected on a
dialog: campaign to clean up the city...
dialog: when are you going to start?
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Well, Mike-
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Like this so-called Batman- a lot of
dialog: people say he's doing some good that
dialog: criminals are running scared... but
dialog: I say NO. What kind of hero needs
dialog: to wear a mask? You don't let
dialog: vigilantes run around breaking the
dialog: law... where does it end? Yet, we
dialog: hear rumors that instead of trying
dialog: to arrest him the cops are using him
dialog: to do their dirty work.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: I'm told our men in the Major Crimes
dialog: Unit are close to an arrest.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Hey, Wuertz- the Mayor says you're
dialog: closing in on the Batman.
text: WUERTZ looks up, listless. Crumples up a paper.
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: The investigation is ongoing.
text: He throws the paper at the trash. It rebounds off a board
dialog: headed 'BATMAN: SUSPECTS.' Lined with pictures: Abraham
dialog: Lincoln. Elvis. The Abominable Snowman.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 8.
scene_heading: 23 EXT. ROOFTOP, MAJOR CRIMES UNIT -- NIGHT 23
text: Ramirez comes out onto the roof. LIEUTENANT GORDON sits by
text: a SEARCHLIGHT. She hands Gordon a cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Ever intending to see your wife again,
dialog: Lieutenant?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I thought you had to go look after
dialog: your mother, detective.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: They checked her back into hospital.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: (making light)
dialog: Least there she's got someone round
dialog: the clock. Unlike your wife.
dialog: (looks at bat-signal)
dialog: He hasn't shown?
text: Gordon gets up. Looks into the sky at the bat-signal.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Often doesn't. But I like reminding
dialog: everybody that he's out there.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Why wouldn't he come?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Hopefully... Because he's busy.
scene_heading: 24 EXT. PARKING GARAGE -- NIGHT 24
text: Two black SUV's pull onto the top floor. A large man emerges--
text: the CHECHEN. A BODYGUARD points at the sky. The Chechen
text: peers up at the BAT-SIGNAL. Shrugs.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: That's why we bring dogs.
text: BODYGUARD 2 opens the back door- three enormous ROTWEILERS
text: emerge, GROWLING. The Chechen crouches, KISSING the dogs.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN (CONT'D)
dialog: My little princes...
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 9.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN (CONT'D)
dialog: (to bodyguards)
dialog: The Batman's invisible to you fools...
dialog: but my little princes... they can
dialog: find human meat in complete darkness.
text: The Chechen moves to the second SUV, reaches in and DRAGS
text: out a skinny, wild-eyed JUNKIE by his hair.
speaker_heading: JUNKIE
dialog: (babbling)
dialog: No! No get 'em off me! Off me!
text: The Chechen drags the Junkie towards a battered white van.
text: The van's REAR DOORS OPEN... two armed THUGS emerge, carrying
text: BARRELS... a third hovers in the dark interior.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Look! Look what your drugs did to
dialog: my customers!
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Buyer beware...
text: The figure emerges: SCARECROW. Wearing his mask.
speaker_heading: SCARECROW
dialog: I told your man my compound would
dialog: take you places. I never said they'd
dialog: be places you wanted to go.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: My business is repeat customers.
speaker_heading: SCARECROW
dialog: If you don't like what I have to
dialog: offer, buy from someone else.
dialog: Assuming Batman left anyone else to
dialog: buy from.
text: The Chechen frowns. THE DOGS START BARKING.
speaker_heading: BODYGUARD
dialog: (nervous)
dialog: He's here.
text: A BURLY THUG at the periphery is suddenly SUCKED into the
text: darkness. In his place a shadow straightens, revealing
text: POINTED BAT-EARS against the glittering skyline.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Come on, sonofbitch- my dogs are
dialog: hungry, pity there's only one of
dialog: you...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 10.
text: A BODYGUARD to the side DISAPPEARS with a scream, and a SECOND
speaker_heading: BAT-SHADOW appears.
text: The Chechen looks taken aback. Three more BAT-SHADOWS
dialog: appear... even the dogs stop growling.
text: BOOM! A hole appears in the SUV next to the Chechen. The
text: first bat-shadow steps into the light carrying a SHOTGUN.
text: CHAOS as men scatter and the rooftop erupts in GUNFIRE. The
text: Chechen TURNS as he hears one of his men SCREAM.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN (CONT'D)
dialog: Loose the dogs!
dialog: A Bodyguard releases the DOGS- they RACE, SALIVATING, into
dialog: the darkness...
dialog: The Dogs RACE towards a Bat-Shadow- the first dog LEAPS,
dialog: gets its JAWS around the Bat-Shadow's throat...
text: Scarecrow ducks behind the van- holes PUNCHED in the side by
text: shotgun blasts right behind him. He starts to climb into
dialog: the driver's seat-
text: The muzzle of a shotgun is pressed to the back of his head-
text: a bat-shadow is behind him- he SPRAYS him with FEAR TOXIN-
text: the bat-shadow collapses to the ground, SCREAMING. The
text: Chechen, cowering from gunfire, looks down at him.
speaker_heading: SCARECROW
dialog: Not the real thing.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: How you know?
speaker_heading: SCARECROW
dialog: We're old friends.
text: A HUGE BLACK SHAPE SLAMS down onto a row of parked cars.
speaker_heading: The BATMOBILE.
speaker_heading: SCARECROW (CONT'D)
dialog: That's more like it.
dialog: The Chechen's men BLAST away at the front of the car: the
text: bullets SPARK off its monstrous surface harmlessly...
scene_heading: 25 INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 25
text: The cockpit is EMPTY. One of the screens reads "LOITER".
text: The shooting STOPS. The screen switches to "INTIMIDATE"
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 11.
scene_heading: 26 EXT. PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 26
text: The men STARE at the Batmobile for a quiet moment... BOOM!
dialog: The Batmobile CANNONS blast cars all around the men-
text: A bat-shadow lines up his shotgun on a running bodyguard-
text: CLUNK- a BLACK GAUNTLET grasps the barrel and BENDS it upwards
dialog: with a HOWL of tortured steel- the bat-shadow looks into the
text: face of the Batman. The REAL BATMAN.
text: The Bat-shadow STUMBLES BACKWARDS in terror, leaving the
text: bent shotgun in Batman's hand. Batman OPENS his hand,
text: revealing a PNEUMATIC MANGLE hidden in his palm-
text: Batman bears down on the dogs mauling another bat-shadow-
text: DRAWS his GRAPPLING GUN and SHOOTS his grapple into the fake
dialog: Batman's leg and RIPS him from the dogs, one dog HANGING ON
text: as Batman pulls the unconscious man away... the Chechen RUNS
dialog: down the ramp towards the exit...
dialog: As Batman KICKS the dog off the fake Batman- the Chechen
text: gets into his SUV- another dog LOCKS ITS JAWS around Batman's
dialog: forearm, RIPPING, TEARING- Batman SWINGS THE DOG OVER HIS
text: HEAD- SMASHES it against the ground- its jaws OPEN...
text: Batman rises, an engine RACES behind him- he can't turn in
text: time- BLAM- he's SLAMMED sideways by the speeding van.
scene_heading: 27 INT. VAN -- CONTINUOUS 27
text: Scarecrow, driving, NODS at him and hits the gas... Batman
text: raises his hand, revealing his jointed mangle and pistons.
text: The mangle STRAIGHTENS and ROTATES from his palm to the knife
dialog: edge of his opened hand...
text: Batman CHOPS straight through the windshield- pulls his hand
dialog: out and CHOPS again- the mangle gets STUCK- Scarecrow steers
dialog: towards a column...
scene_heading: 28 EXT. PARKING GARAGE -- CONTINUOUS 28
text: Batman can't free himself- he turns a dial on his forearm
text: piston- EXPLOSIVE BOLTS blow, freeing his gauntlet from the
text: mangle- he ROLLS free of the van as it SCRAPES the column
text: and barrels down the circular exit ramp.
text: Batman rises. A phony batman lying on the ground watches as
text: Batman climbs up to the edge of the ten-story corkscrew ramp
text: and stands there, waiting for something.
dialog: After a moment he JUMPS... and falls... ten stories...
text: He's about to hit the exit ramp- the van appears- his cape
text: POPS OPEN- he SLAMS into the roof, CRUSHING the cab.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 12.
scene_heading: 29 EXT. ROOFTOP, PARKING GARAGE -- MOMENTS LATER 29
text: The Chechen's men are lined up against the wall, bound with
dialog: zip-ties. So are the fake batmen. Batman DUMPS Scarecrow
dialog: next to the three "Batmen", RIPS his mask off.
speaker_heading: "BATMAN"
dialog: We're trying to help you!
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I don't need help.
speaker_heading: SCARECROW
dialog: Not my diagnosis.
dialog: Batman silences Scarecrow with his boot. Turns to "Batman"
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Don't let me find you out here again.
text: Batman moves towards the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: "BATMAN"
dialog: You need us! There's only one of
dialog: you-it's war out here!
dialog: Batman gets into the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: "BATMAN" (CONT'D)
dialog: What gives you the right?! What's
dialog: the difference between you and me?!
dialog: As the Canopy hisses shut-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm not wearing hockey pads.
text: The "Batman" looks down at his makeshift costume as the
speaker_heading: Batmobile ROARS past.
scene_heading: 30 EXT. BANK -- NIGHT 30
text: LIEUTENANT GORDON ducks the barrage of SHOUTED QUESTIONS
text: from press and picks his way into the lobby of the bank.
scene_heading: 31 INT. LOBBY, BANK -- NIGHT 31
dialog: FORENSIC SPECIALISTS work the room. Ramirez hands Gordon
dialog: PRINTS- indicates the surveillance cameras.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: He can't resist showing us his face.
text: Gordon looks at the grainy blow-up of THE JOKER'S FACE:
text: sweating clown makeup plastered thick around the mouth.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 13.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Put this out, by morning we can put
dialog: a big top over central holding and
dialog: sell tickets. What's he hiding under
dialog: that makeup?
text: Gordon approaches a FORENSIC PHOTOGRAPHER shooting Grumpy's
text: body. Gordon crouches to look at his clown mask. Batman
text: steps from the shadows. Gordon nods at Ramirez.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Give us a minute, please, people!
dialog: The Forensic team and Ramirez leave. Gordon hands Batman
dialog: the blow-up of the Joker.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Him again. Who are the others?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Another bunch of small timers.
text: Batman pulls a DEVICE from his belt- moves to the bundles of
text: cash scattered near the clown's body. The device PINGS.
text: Batman picks up a BUNDLE. Hands it to Gordon.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Some of the marked bills I gave you.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: My detectives have been making drug
dialog: buys with them for weeks. This bank
dialog: was another drop for the mob. That
dialog: makes five banks- we've found the
dialog: bulk of their dirty cash.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Time to move in.
dialog: Gordon waves the photo.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What about this Joker guy?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: One man or the entire mob? He can
dialog: wait.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We'll have to hit all banks
dialog: simultaneously. SWAT teams, backup.
text: Gordon holds up the bundle of banknotes.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 14.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: When the new D.A. gets wind of this,
dialog: he'll want in.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Do you trust him?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Be hard to keep him out.
dialog: Gordon bags the cash.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: I hear he's as stubborn as you.
dialog: But Batman is already gone.
scene_heading: 32 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- MORNING 32
text: Alfred walks past soaring downtown views as he carries a
text: breakfast tray through the vast, empty penthouse. He stops,
text: looking at a still-made bed. Alfred sighs, turns.
scene_heading: 33 EXT. RAIL YARDS -- MORNING 33
text: Alfred gets out of the Rolls carrying a thermos. He walks
text: towards a RAILWAY BRIDGE, stops at a FREIGHT CONTAINER
text: sitting, lopsided, on blocks. Alfred unlocks the RUSTY
text: PADLOCK AND CHAIN. Steps inside.
scene_heading: 34 INT. FREIGHT CONTAINER -- CONTINUOUS 34
text: Alfred FUMBLES in the dark- bangs his elbow- A HISS as the
text: FLOOR LOWERS... Alfred sinks down into...
scene_heading: 35 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS 35
text: The container floor lowers on a giant PISTON. Alfred steps
text: off into a large, LOW-CEILINGED CONCRETE CHAMBER. The
text: Batmobile sits in the middle. Machines- 3D printers, power
text: tools- dot the high-tech space. At one end, Wayne sits at a
text: bank of monitors watching CCTV footage of the bank robbery.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Be nice when Wayne Manor's rebuilt
dialog: and you can swap not sleeping in a
dialog: penthouse for not sleeping in a
dialog: mansion.
text: Alfred places a cup of coffee in front of Wayne, who is
text: STITCHING up a cut on his arm.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 15.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: (takes needle)
dialog: When you stitch yourself up you make
dialog: a bloody mess.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: But I learn from my mistakes.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You ought to be pretty knowledgeable
dialog: by now, then.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: My armor... I'm carrying too much
dialog: weight- I need to be faster.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm sure Mr. Fox can oblige.
dialog: (looks at wound)
dialog: Did you get mauled by a tiger?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: A dog.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: A big dog. There were more copycats
dialog: last night, Alfred. With guns.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps you could hire some of them
dialog: and take weekends off.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: This wasn't exactly what I had in
dialog: mind when I said I wanted to inspire
dialog: people.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I know. But things are improving.
dialog: Look at the new District Attorney...
text: Wayne indicates a monitor: a handsome MAN in a suit.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I am. Closely. I need to know if
dialog: he can be trusted.
text: Alfred looks at other images- the D.A. at a meeting.
dialog: Campaigning. Helping someone out of a cab: RACHEL.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Are you interested in his character...
dialog: or his social circle?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 16.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Who Rachel spends her time with is
dialog: her business.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Well, I trust you're not following
dialog: me on my day off.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If you ever took one, I might.
text: Alfred bites the thread. Examines his stitches. Looks at
text: the SCARS criss-crossing Wayne's shoulders.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Know your limits, Master Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Batman has no limits.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Well, you do, sir.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I can't afford to know them.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And what happens the day you find
dialog: out?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: We all know how much you like to say
dialog: 'I told you so'.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: That day, Master Wayne, even I won't
dialog: want to. Probably.
scene_heading: 36 INT. COURTROOM, SUPERIOR COURT -- DAY 36
text: HARVEY DENT bursts into the courtroom. Assistant D.A. RACHEL
speaker_heading: DAWES, look up, ANNOYED.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Sorry I'm late, folks.
text: Rachel leans in to Dent, speaking under her breath.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Where were you?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Worried you'd have to step up?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 17.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I know the briefs backwards.
text: Dent pulls a large silver dollar out of his pocket. Grins.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Well, then, fair's fair: heads, I'll
dialog: take it. Tails, he's all yours.
dialog: Dent FLIPS. Shows it to Rachel- heads.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You're flipping coins to see who
dialog: leads?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: My father's lucky coin. As I recall,
dialog: it got me my first date with you.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I'm serious, Harvey, you don't leave
dialog: things like this to chance.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I don't.
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: I make my own luck.
text: Dent looks across at the defendant- SAL MARONI.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: I thought the DA just played golf
dialog: with the Mayor, things like that.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Tee-off's 1:30. More than enough
dialog: time to put you away for life, Sally.
text: The BAILIFFS lead a THIN MAN into the witness box. ROSSI.
scene_heading: 37 INT. COURTROOM, SUPERIOR COURT -- DAY 37
text: Rossi takes a SIP of water. Dent works the room.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: With Carmine Falcone in Arkham,
dialog: someone must've stepped up to run
dialog: the so-called family.
dialog: (Rossi nods)
dialog: Is this man in the courtroom today?
dialog: (Rossi nods again)
dialog: Could you identify him for us, please?
text: Dent turns to Maroni, who is poker-faced. Dent smiles.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 18.
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: You win, counselor. It was me.
text: Dent's smile disappears. He turns back to Rossi.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I've got a sworn statement from you
dialog: that this man, Salvatore Maroni, is
dialog: the new head of the Falcone crime
dialog: family.
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: Maroni? He's a fall guy. I'm the
dialog: brains of the organization.
text: LAUGHS from the gallery. Dent turns to the JUDGE.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Permission to treat the witness as
dialog: hostile?
speaker_heading: ROSSI
dialog: Hostile? I'll show you hostile.
text: Rossi JUMPS UP, points a GUN at Dent's face. SCREAMS from
dialog: the gallery. Rossi PULLS the TRIGGER- the gun MISFIRES with
text: a POP. Dent steps forward, grabs the GUN- DECKS Rossi with
text: a RIGHT CROSS- unloads the GUN and sets it down in front of
dialog: Maroni.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Ceramic 28 caliber. Made in China.
dialog: If you want to kill a public servant,
dialog: Mr. Maroni, I recommend you buy
dialog: American.
text: Everyone STARES, open-mouthed, as Dent adjusts his tie. The
dialog: Bailiffs are wrestling Rossi from the box-
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: But, your honor, I'm not done...
scene_heading: 38 INT. LOBBY, DENT'S OFFICE, DA'S -- DAY 38
text: Rachel, excited, leads Dent through the lobby.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: We'll never link the gun to Maroni,
dialog: so we can't charge him, but I'll
dialog: tell you one thing- the fact they
dialog: tried to kill you means we're getting
dialog: to them.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 19.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Glad you're so pleased, Rachel. I'm
dialog: fine by the way.
text: Rachel turns to Dent. Smooths his lapels.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey, you're Gotham's D.A.- if
dialog: you're not getting shot at, you're
dialog: not doing your job.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: 'Course if you said you were rattled
dialog: we could take the rest of the day...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Can't. I dragged the head of the
dialog: Major Crimes Unit down here.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Jim Gordon? He's a friend- try to
dialog: be nice.
scene_heading: 39 INT. DENT'S OFFICE -- DAY 39
text: Gordon stands as Dent enters. The two men shake.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Word is you've got a hell of a right
dialog: cross. Shame Sal's going to walk.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Well, good thing about the mob is
dialog: they keep giving you second chances.
text: Dent picks up a bundle of bills from the heist.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Lightly irradiated bills. Fancy
dialog: stuff for a city cop. Have help?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We liaise with various agencies-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Save it, Gordon. I want to meet
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Official policy is to arrest the
dialog: vigilante known as Batman on sight.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: And that flood light on top of M.C.U.?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 20.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: If you have any concerns about...
dialog: malfunctioning equipment... take
dialog: them up with maintenance, counselor.
text: Dent tosses the bills back onto his desk. Annoyed.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I've put every known money launderer
dialog: in Gotham behind bars. But the mob
dialog: is still getting its money out. I
dialog: think you and your "friend" have
dialog: found the last game in town and you're
dialog: trying to hit 'em where it hurts:
dialog: their wallets. Bold. You gonna
dialog: count me in?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: In this town, the fewer people know
dialog: something, the safer the operation.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Gordon, I don't like that you've got
dialog: your own special unit, and I don't
dialog: like that it's full of cops I
dialog: investigated at internal affairs.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: If I didn't work with cops you'd
dialog: investigated while you were making
dialog: your name at I.A.- I'd be working
dialog: alone. I don't get political points
dialog: for being an idealist- I have to do
dialog: the best I can with what I have.
text: Dent looks at Gordon. Considering how to proceed.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You want me to back warrants for
dialog: search and seizure on five banks
dialog: without telling me who we're after?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I can give you the names of the banks.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Well, that's a start. I'll get you
dialog: your warrants. But I want your trust.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (rises)
dialog: You don't have to sell me, Dent. We
dialog: all know you're Gotham's white knight.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 21.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (grins)
dialog: I hear they've got a different
dialog: nickname for me down at M.C.U..
dialog: Gordon smiles.
scene_heading: 40 INT. BOARDROOM, WAYNE ENTERPRISES -- DAY 40
dialog: LUCIUS FOX, CEO of Wayne Enterprises, and the board listen
dialog: to LAU, 40s, CEO of L.S.I. Holdings.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: In China L.S.I. Holdings stands for
dialog: dynamic new growth. A joint Chinese
dialog: venture with Wayne Enterprises will
dialog: be a powerhouse.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Well, Mr. Lau, I speak for the rest
dialog: of the board, and Mr. Wayne, in
dialog: expressing our own excitement...
text: The Chinese look to the head of the table: Wayne, ASLEEP.
scene_heading: 41 INT. HALLWAY, WAYNE ENTERPRISES -- DAY 41
text: Fox shows Lau to the elevator. He's joined by, REESE, 30s,
dialog: an ambitious M and A consultant lawyer.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: It's OK, Mr. Fox. Everyone knows
dialog: who really runs Wayne Enterprises.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We'll be in touch as soon as our
dialog: people have wrapped up the diligence.
text: The elevator doors close. Reese frowns.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Sir, I know Mr. Wayne's curious how
dialog: his trust fund gets replenished but
dialog: frankly... it's embarrassing.
text: Fox heads for his office, Reese in tow.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You worry about the diligence, Mr.
dialog: Reese. I'll worry about Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: It's done- the numbers are solid.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 22.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Do it again. Wouldn't want the trust
dialog: fund to run out, would we?
scene_heading: 42 INT. BOARDROOM, WAYNE ENTERPRISES -- CONTINUOUS 42
text: Wayne is standing by the window.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Another long night?
dialog: (Wayne smiles)
dialog: This joint venture was your idea,
dialog: and the consultants love it, but I'm
dialog: not convinced. L.S.I.'s grown 8
dialog: percent annually, like clockwork.
dialog: They must have a revenue stream that's
dialog: off the books. Maybe even illegal.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: OK. Cancel the deal.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (looks at Wayne)
dialog: You already knew.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I needed a closer look at their books.
text: Fox looks at Wayne. Wry.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Anything else you can trouble me
dialog: for?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I need a new suit.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (looks him over)
dialog: Three buttons is a little nineties.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm not talking about fashion, Mr.Fox,
dialog: so much as function.
text: Wayne pulls some diagrams. Fox looks them over.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You want to be able to turn your
dialog: head?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sure make backing out of the driveway
dialog: easier.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 23.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'll see what I can do.
scene_heading: 43 INT. RESTAURANT -- NIGHT 43
text: Rachel and Dent at a table. Dent looks a little intimidated
dialog: by the surroundings.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It took three weeks to get a
dialog: reservation and I had to tell them I
dialog: worked for the government.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: This city health inspector's not
dialog: afraid to pull strings.
text: Rachel smiles. Then, over Dent's shoulder, she sees Wayne
text: enter, accompanied by a beautiful woman.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel! Fancy that.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Yes, Bruce. Fancy that.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel, Natascha. Natascha, Rachel.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: (Russian accent)
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: The famous Bruce Wayne. Rachel's
dialog: told me everything about you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I certainly hope not.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce, this is Harvey Dent.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Let's put a couple tables together.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I don't know if they'll let us-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 24.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: They should! I own the place.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: For how long? About three weeks?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How'd you know?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Natascha, aren't you...?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Prima ballerina for the Moscow Ballet.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey's taking me next week.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You're into ballet, Harvey?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: No. He knows I am.
text: An extra table arrives.
speaker_heading: 44 INT. SAME -- LATER 44
dialog: They finish up dinner.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: No, come on- how could you want to
dialog: raise children in a city like this?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I was raised here. I turned out OK.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Is Wayne Manor in the city limits?
text: Rachel gives Dent a withering look.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: The Palisades? Sure. You know, as
dialog: our new D.A. you might want to figure
dialog: out where your jurisdiction ends.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: I'm talking about the kind of city
dialog: that idolizes a masked vigilante...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Gotham's proud of an ordinary man
dialog: standing up for what's right.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 25.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: Gotham needs heroes like you- elected
dialog: officials, not a man who thinks he's
dialog: above the law.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Exactly. Who appointed the Batman?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: We did. All of us who stood by and
dialog: let scum take control of our city.
text: Wayne watches Dent. Sees his passion.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: But this is a democracy, Harvey.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: When their enemies were at the gate,
dialog: the Romans would suspend democracy
dialog: and appoint one man to protect the
dialog: city. It wasn't considered an honor.
dialog: It was considered public service.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: And the last man they asked to protect
dialog: the republic was named Caesar. He
dialog: never gave up that power.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Well, I guess you either die a hero
dialog: or you live long enough to see
dialog: yourself become the villain. Look,
dialog: whoever the Batman is, he doesn't
dialog: want to spend the rest of his life
dialog: doing this. How could he? Batman's
dialog: looking for someone to take up his
dialog: mantle.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: Someone like you, Mr. Dent?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Maybe. If I'm up to it.
text: Natascha reaches up and covers the top half of Dent's face.
speaker_heading: NATASCHA
dialog: But what if Harvey Dent is the caped
dialog: crusader?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: If I were sneaking out every night
dialog: someone would've noticed by now.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 26.
text: Dent takes Rachel's hand. Rachel glances at Wayne. Awkward.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Well, you've sold me, Dent. I'm
dialog: gonna throw you a fundraiser.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: That's nice of you, Bruce, but I'm
dialog: not up for reelection for three years.
dialog: That stuff won't start for-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I don't think you understand. One
dialog: fundraiser with my pals, you'll never
dialog: need another cent.
scene_heading: 45 EXT. BACK ALLEY, HOTEL, DOWNTOWN -- DAY 45
text: A line of high-end AUTOS dispenses well dressed GANGSTERS.
scene_heading: 46 INT. KITCHEN, HOTEL -- DAY 46
text: The Chechen walks through a METAL DETECTOR manned by two
text: CHINESE. A lean, African-American man, 50's, is being wanded.
text: This is GAMBOL. He nods at the Chechen, wary.
scene_heading: 47 INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, HOTEL -- CONTINUOUS 47
text: Gotham's most notorious GANGSTERS. A door opens, and two
text: BURLY CHINESE enter, carrying a TV. They set it down on the
dialog: end of the table.
speaker_heading: CRIME BOSS
dialog: The hell is this...?
text: The screen flickers to life: Lau. The room ERUPTS.
speaker_heading: LAU (ON T.V.)
dialog: Gentlemen, please. As you're all
dialog: aware, one of our deposits was stolen.
dialog: A relatively small amount: 68 million.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Who's stupid enough steal from us?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: I'm told the man who arranged the
dialog: heist calls himself Joker.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Who the hell is that?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 27.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Two-bit whack-job wears a cheap purple
dialog: suit and make-up. He's not the
dialog: problem- he's a nobody.
dialog: (looks at Lau)
dialog: The problem is our money being tracked
dialog: by the cops.
dialog: Murmurs of surprise.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Thanks to Mr. Maroni's well-placed
dialog: sources we know that police have
dialog: indeed identified our banks using
dialog: marked bills and are planning to
dialog: seize your funds today-
text: Everyone starts SHOUTING at once.
scene_heading: 48 EXT. VARIOUS DOWNTOWN BANKS -- CONTINUOUS 48
text: Gordon sits in a SWAT van outside a bank. Stephens is outside
dialog: another. Ramirez a third...
dialog: SWAT teams CHECK WEAPONS and prepare move...
scene_heading: 49 INT. SOCIAL CLUB, DOWNTOWN -- CONTINUOUS 49
dialog: Lau waits for the noise to subside.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: You promised safe, clean money launder-
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: With the investigation ongoing, none
dialog: of you can risk hanging on to your
dialog: own proceeds. And since the
dialog: enthusiastic new D.A. has put all my
dialog: competitors out of business, I'm
dialog: your only option.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: So what are you proposing?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Moving all deposits to one secure
dialog: location. Not a bank.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: Where, then?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Obviously, no one can know but me.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 28.
speaker_heading: LAU (CONT'D)
dialog: If the police were to gain leverage
dialog: over one of you everyone's money
dialog: would be at stake.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: What stops them getting to you?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: As the money is moved I go to Hong
dialog: Kong. Far from Dent's jurisdiction.
dialog: And the Chinese will not extradite
dialog: one of their own.
text: From the back of the room comes LAUGHTER. It grows and grows,
dialog: until it fills the room. All eyes turn:
text: The Joker. Sweaty clown makeup obscuring the AWFUL SCARS
text: which widen his mouth into a PERMANENT, GHOULISH SMILE.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I thought I told bad jokes.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: Give me one reason I shouldn't have
dialog: my boy here pull your head off.
text: The Joker pulls out a freshly sharpened pencil.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: How about a magic trick?
text: The Joker SLAMS the pencil into the table, leaving it UPRIGHT.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: I'll make this pencil disappear.
text: Gambol nods. His BODYGUARD MOVES at the Joker- who SIDESTEPS-
text: GRIPS his head- SLAMS it, FACE DOWN, onto the table...
text: The Bodyguard goes LIMP and slides off of the table. The
text: PENCIL is gone. MAGIC. The Joker BOWS. Grins at Gambol.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: And by the way, the suit wasn't cheap.
dialog: You should know. You bought it.
text: Gambol STANDS, furious. The Chechen stops him.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Sit. I wanna hear proposition.
text: The Joker nods his thanks. Rises.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 29.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: A year ago these cops and lawyers
dialog: wouldn't dare cross any of you.
dialog: What happened? Did your balls drop
dialog: off? See, a guy like me-
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: A freak.
dialog: Laughs. Which the Joker tries to ignore.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: A guy like me... I know why you're
dialog: holding your little group therapy
dialog: session in broad daylight. I know
dialog: why you're afraid to go out at night.
dialog: Batman. He's shown Gotham your true
dialog: colors. And Dent's just the
dialog: beginning.
dialog: (indicates Lau)
dialog: And as for his so-called plan- Batman
dialog: has no jurisdiction. He'll find him
dialog: and make him squeal.
dialog: (smiles at Lau)
dialog: I can tell the squealers every time.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: What you propose?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: It's simple. Kill the Batman.
dialog: Jeers. Laughter.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: If it's so easy why haven't you done
dialog: it already?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Like my mother used to tell me- if
dialog: you're good at something, never do
dialog: it for free.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: How much you want?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Half.
text: Laughter. The Joker shrugs. Rises.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: You don't deal with this now, soon
dialog: Gambol won't even be able to get a
dialog: nickel for his grandma-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 30.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: Enough from the clown.
text: Gambol gets up, MOVING at the Joker, who casually opens his
text: coat, revealing EXPLOSIVES wired to his chest. Gambol stops.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Let's not blow this out of all
dialog: proportion.
text: Gambol stares at the Joker. Hard.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: You think you can steal from us and
dialog: just walk away? I'm putting the
dialog: word out- 5 hundred grand for this
dialog: clown dead. A million alive, so I
dialog: get to teach him some manners, first.
text: The Joker shrugs. Turns to the assembled.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Let me know when you change your
dialog: minds.
text: The Joker strolls out. Maroni turns to Lau.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: How soon can you move the money?
scene_heading: 50 EXT. VARIOUS BANKS DOWNTOWN -- CONTINUOUS 50
text: Gordon hurries up the steps to a bank. SWAT teams rush the
dialog: various banks.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: I already have...
scene_heading: 51 EXT. UNDERPASS, GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 51
text: A CHINESE MAN finishes loading a TRACTOR TRAILER with cash
text: boxes. The truck pulls out into a CONVOY.
scene_heading: 52 INT. BANK VAULT -- CONTINUOUS 52
text: Gordon stands in an almost empty bank vault. Furious.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: For obvious reasons I couldn't wait
dialog: for your permission...
scene_heading: 53 INT. SOCIAL CLUB, DOWNTOWN -- CONTINUOUS 53
dialog: The shot of Lau on the TV widens...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 31.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Rest assured, your money is safe.
text: He is already on his private jet.
text: IN THE SKY: THE BAT SIGNAL.
scene_heading: 54 EXT. ROOF, POLICE STATION -- NIGHT 54
text: Batman emerges from the shadows. The man next to the glowing
dialog: spotlight turns: DENT.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You're a hard man to reach.
text: Gordon BURSTS onto the rooftop, weapon drawn. Sees Dent.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Lau's halfway to Hong Kong- if you'd
dialog: asked, I could have taken his passport-
dialog: I told you to keep me in the loop.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Yeah? All that was left in the vaults
dialog: were the marked bills- they knew we
dialog: were coming! As soon as your office
dialog: got involved, there's a leak-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: My office?! You're sitting down
dialog: here with scum like Wuertz and
dialog: Ramirez...
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Oh, yeah, Gordon- I almost had your
dialog: rookie cold on a racketeering beef.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Don't try to cloud the fact that
dialog: clearly Maroni's got people in your
dialog: office, Dent.
dialog: Dent turns to Batman.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: We need Lau back, but the Chinese
dialog: won't extradite a national under any
dialog: circumstances.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: If I get him to you, can you get him
dialog: to talk?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I'll get him to sing.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 32.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We're going after the mob's life
dialog: savings. Things will get ugly.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I knew the risks when I took this
dialog: job, lieutenant. Same as you.
dialog: (turns to Batman)
dialog: How will you get him back, anyway?
text: Batman is gone. Dent looks around, startled. Gordon smirks.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He does that.
scene_heading: 55 INT. FOX'S OFFICE, WAYNE INDUSTRIES -- DAY 55
text: Fox gets up from behind his desk.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Our Chinese friend left town before
dialog: I could tell him the deal is off.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm sure you've always wanted to go
dialog: to Hong Kong.
text: Fox opens the door to a private elevator.
scene_heading: 56 INT. PRIVATE ELEVATOR -- CONTINUOUS 56
dialog: Fox turns a key.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What's wrong with a phone call?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I think Mr. Lau deserves a more
dialog: personal touch.
scene_heading: 57 INT. APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- CONTINUOUS 57
text: Fox leads Wayne off the elevator and into the vast space.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: For high altitude jumps, you need
dialog: oxygen and stabilizers. I must say-
dialog: compared to your usual requests,
dialog: jumping out of an airplane is pretty
dialog: straightforward.
text: Lucius stops at a cabinet, pulls open a drawer and hauls out
text: an oxygen tank and ribbed rubber hosing.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 33.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How about getting back into the plane?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I can recommend a good travel agent.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Without it landing.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: That's more like it, Mr. Wayne.
text: He shuts the drawer. Moves off, thinking.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: I don't think I have anything here.
dialog: The CIA had a program in the '60s
dialog: for getting their people out of hot
dialog: spots. Called Sky Hook. Now-
text: Fox opens a cabinet to reveal COMPONENTS OF A NEW BAT-SUIT.
text: ARMORED PLATING secured to mesh. Wayne lifts an arm.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: Hardened kevlar plates on a titanium-
dialog: dipped fiber tri-weave for
dialog: flexibility...
text: Wayne examines DOUBLE BLADE SCALLOPS on the gauntlet...
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: You'll be lighter, faster, more
dialog: agile...
text: Wayne flinches as the BLADES FIRE, SPINNING LIKE THROWING
text: STARS, NARROWLY MISSING his ear, embedding themselves in a
text: filing cabinet. Fox looks at him.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: Perhaps you should read the
dialog: instructions, first.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sorry.
text: Fox picks up the chest, demonstrating its flexibility.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Now, there's a trade-off... the spread
dialog: of the plates gives you weak spots.
dialog: You'll be more vulnerable to gunfire
dialog: and knives.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 34.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: We wouldn't want things getting too
dialog: easy, would we?
dialog: (picks up suit)
dialog: How will it hold up against dogs?
text: Fox looks at him quizzically.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You talking chihuahuas or rotweilers?
dialog: (Wayne smiles)
dialog: It should do fine against cats.
scene_heading: 58 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- DAY 58
text: Wayne examines a parachute harness. Alfred unfolds a diagram
text: of a NAVY CARGO PLANE with a giant "V" mounted on the front.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I found one. In Arizona. Very nice
dialog: man says it will take him a week to
dialog: get it running. And he takes cash.
dialog: What about a flight crew?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: South Korean smugglers. They run
dialog: flights into Pyongyang, below radar
dialog: the whole way. Did you think of an
dialog: alibi?
text: Alfred looks quite pleased with himself.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, yes.
scene_heading: 59 EXT. BALLET -- NIGHT 59
text: Rachel and Dent arrive to find the box office SHUTTERED. A
text: sign:'PERFORMANCE CANCELED.' A newspaper story is taped to
text: the glass. Over a picture of BRUCE WAYNE ON A YACHT:
text: LOVE BOAT- Billionaire absconds with entire Moscow ballet.
scene_heading: 60 EXT. DECK, WAYNE'S YACHT, THE CARIBBEAN -- DAY 60
text: Alfred, picks his way over twelve SUNBATHING BALLERINAS.
text: Wayne looks up from a newspaper. Alfred points to a SEAPLANE
text: gently touching down across the bay.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I believe your plane is here.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 35.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You look tired, Alfred. Will you be
dialog: all right without me?
text: A Ballerina rolls over- waves the suntan lotion at Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: If you can tell me the Russian for
dialog: 'apply your own bloody suntan lotion.'
text: Wayne tosses a large, waterproof kit bag into the water and
text: JUMPS in after it. Begins swimming over to the sea-plane.
scene_heading: 61 INT. POOL HALL -- NIGHT 61
text: Gambol racks up. A bodyguard steps into the room.
speaker_heading: BODYGUARD
dialog: Somebody here for you.
text: Gambol looks to the back- three rough customers are waiting.
speaker_heading: BODYGUARD (CONT'D)
dialog: They say they've killed the Joker.
dialog: They've come for the reward.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: They bring proof?
speaker_heading: BODYGUARD
dialog: They say they've brought the body.
dialog: The bodyguards FLOP a BODY wrapped in garbage bags onto the
text: table. The BOUNTY HUNTERS wait in the corner. Gambol pulls
text: back one of the garbage bags, revealing the Joker's bloodied
text: face. Gambol spits. Turns to face the bounty hunters.
speaker_heading: GAMBOL
dialog: So. Dead you get five hundred-
text: Behind Gambol, the Joker SITS UP- THRUSTS knives into the
text: bodyguards' chests. Gambol spins to see a crazy grin on the
dialog: Joker's spit-dribbled face-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: How about alive?
text: The Joker gets a switchblade in Gambol's mouth- SHARP METAL
text: PULLING THE CHEEK TAUT. The Bounty Hunters subdue the
dialog: remaining bodyguards.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Wanna know how I got these scars?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 36.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: My father was a drinker and a fiend.
dialog: He'd beat mommy right in front of
dialog: me. One night he goes off crazier
dialog: than usual, mommy gets the kitchen
dialog: knife to defend herself. He doesn't
dialog: like that. Not. One. Bit.
dialog: The Joker TUGS Gambols cheek with the blade.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: So, me watching, he takes the knife
text: to her, laughing while he does it.
dialog: Turns to me and says 'why so serious?'
dialog: Comes at me with the knife- 'why so
dialog: serious?' Sticks the blade in my
dialog: mouth- 'Let's put a smile on that
dialog: face' and...
text: The Joker looks up at the ASHEN FACES of the remaining Body
dialog: Guards. Smiles.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Why so serious?
dialog: The Joker FLICKS his wrist- the Body Guards flinch as Gambol
text: goes down. The Joker turns to them.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Now, our organization is small, but
dialog: we've got a lot of potential for
dialog: aggressive expansion... so which of
dialog: you fine gentlemen would like to
dialog: join our team?
text: The three bodyguards all nod. The Joker SNAPS a pool cue.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Only one slot open right now- so
dialog: we're going to have try-outs.
text: The Joker drops the broken cue in the middle of the men.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Make it fast.
text: The men stare at each other. Then at the jagged pool cue.
scene_heading: 62 EXT. PENINSULA HOTEL, HONG KONG -- DAY 62
text: A HELICOPTER touches down on one of the hotel's twin helipads.
text: Two L.S.I. VPs approach, heads ducked. Fox gets out- they
dialog: shake hands, shouting over the engine-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 37.
dialog: VP
dialog: Welcome to Hong Kong, Mr. Fox! Mr.
dialog: Lau regrets he is unable to meet you
dialog: in person. But with his current
dialog: legal difficulties...!
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I understand!
scene_heading: 63 INT. LOBBY, L.S.I.HOLDINGS -- DAY 63
dialog: The VPs usher Fox towards security.
dialog: VP
dialog: I'm afraid for security reasons I
dialog: have to ask for your mobile phone.
text: Lucius hands his phone to a SECURITY GUARD, who puts the
text: phone in a box underneath his station.
scene_heading: 64 INT. L.S.I.HOLDINGS -- DAY 64
text: Fox and Lau eat lunch in a dining room overlooking the city.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: I must apologize for leaving Gotham
dialog: in the middle of our negotiations.
dialog: This misunderstanding with the Gotham
dialog: police force... I couldn't let such
dialog: a thing threaten my company. A
dialog: businessman of your stature will
dialog: understand. But with you here... we
dialog: can continue.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Well, it was good of you to bring me
dialog: out here in such style, Mr. Lau.
dialog: But I've actually come...
text: A CELL PHONE rings. Fox pulls out a second, identical, phone.
text: Fox presses the off switch and places the phone by his plate.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: We do not allow cell phones in-
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Sorry. Forgot I had it. So, I've
dialog: come to explain why we're going to
dialog: have to put our deal on hold...
text: Lau stares at Fox. Clearly furious. Fox smiles.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 38.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: We can't afford to be seen to do
dialog: business with... well, whatever it
dialog: is you're accused of being. A
dialog: businessman of your stature will
dialog: understand.
text: Lau gets up. Silent. Fox retrieves his phone. Stands.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: (cold)
dialog: I think, Mr. Fox, that a simple phone
dialog: call might have sufficed.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Well, I do love Chinese food. And
dialog: Mr. Wayne didn't want you to think
dialog: we'd been deliberately wasting your
dialog: time.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Just accidentally wasting it.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: That's very good- "accidentally."
dialog: Very good. I'll be sure and tell
dialog: Mr. Wayne that he was wrong about
dialog: you not having a sense of humor.
scene_heading: 65 INT. LOBBY, L.S.I.HOLDINGS -- DAY 65
text: Lucius walks back through security. Nods at the VP, who
text: bows, offering Lucius his cell phone. Lucius shakes his
text: head, holds up the IDENTICAL PHONE. The VP smiles, nods,
text: puts the phone back into the tray with several others.
scene_heading: 66 INT. HOLD, C-130 CARGO HAULER -- DAWN 66
text: Two SMUGGLERS steal glances at Wayne, crouched at the rear
text: in balaclava and flight suit. The COPILOT signals Wayne,
text: who pulls on his oxygen mask and stands up. The rear of the
text: plane OPENS. Wayne steps to the edge, then JUMPS.
scene_heading: 67 EXT. SKIES ABOVE HONG KONG -- DAWN 67
text: Moving across the water towards Hong Kong harbor...tiny figure
dialog: DROPS into frame, PLUMMETING towards the water-
dialog: SPEEDING past the highest floors of skyscrapers, seconds
dialog: from impact. Wayne PULLS the chute- DROPS into the water...
scene_heading: 68 EXT. BENEATH FREEWAY, HONG KONG HARBOR -- DAY 68
text: Wayne pulls himself out of the water, dragging up his pack.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 39.
scene_heading: 69 EXT. CENTRAL ESCALATORS -- DAY 69
text: Wayne stops halfway up the crowded commuter escalator. He
text: takes a camera and lines up a shot like any tourist.
speaker_heading: FOX (O.S.)
dialog: There's a better view from the peak
dialog: tram.
text: Wayne turns to find Fox standing there, street map out.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How's the view from L.S.I. Holdings?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Restricted. Lau's holed up in there
dialog: good and tight. Here...
text: Fox shows Wayne the phone. The display: a 3-D map of Lau's
text: office suite. Wayne takes the phone, impressed.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I had R and D work it up- it sends
dialog: out high frequencies and records the
dialog: response time to map an environment.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Sonar. Just like a b-
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Submarine. Like a submarine.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And the other device?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: In place.
text: Wayne nods, moves away.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: Mr. Wayne?
dialog: (Wayne turns)
dialog: Good luck.
scene_heading: 70 EXT. HONG KONG -- NIGHT 70
text: Moving towards the tallest building in the glittering skyline
text: to find Wayne, crouched on the roof. The blades of his
text: gauntlets CLICK into place. He dons the helmet-like cowl.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 40.
text: His "cape" is in the form of a hard faceted PACK.
text: He stands- pulls two black boxes from his belt, CLICKS them
text: together and UNFOLDS them into a RIFLE-LIKE DEVICE. Batman
dialog: SCOPES a second, lower building. Adjust a setting and FIRES--
dialog: four times...
text: Four small STICKY BOMBS SLAP onto the glass of the lower
text: building. They have visible timers which are COUNTING DOWN.
scene_heading: 71 INT. LOBBY, L.S.I.HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 71
text: Lucius' cell phone GLOWS in the box under the Security Guard's
text: desk. CHARACTERS race across the screen.
text: Then the monitor FLICKERS off, the lights DIM and all of the
text: security doors in the front of the building OPEN at once.
text: The Guard grabs his radio- CALLS FOR HELP...
scene_heading: 72 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING L.S.I.HOLDINGS 72
text: Batman LAUNCHES into the glittering night, DROPPING from the
dialog: tall tower... his pack BURSTS OPEN, becoming his BAT WINGS-
text: he GLIDES down to the lower building, STREAKING around it,
text: BANKING HARD to line up with a window in the rear...
scene_heading: 73 INT. LAU'S OFFICE, L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 73
text: Lau is talking on the phone, staring at a profit projection
text: on a flat screen monitor. Suddenly the room goes dark.
scene_heading: 74 EXT. L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- CONTINUOUS 74
text: As Batman HURTLES towards the glass he COLLAPSES his wings,
text: WRAPPING his cape around himself and CANNONBALLING THROUGH
speaker_heading: THE GLASS--
scene_heading: 75 INT. LAU'S OFFICE SUITE, L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 75
text: ROLLING across the floor in a flurry of broken glass...
scene_heading: 76 INT. LAU'S OFFICE, TOP FLOOR, L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 76
text: Lau pulls out a HANDGUN.
scene_heading: 77 INT. HALLWAY, L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 77
text: Lau steps into the hallway. His BODYGUARDS are waiting for
text: him, carrying FLASHLIGHTS.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Where the hell are the cops?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 41.
speaker_heading: BODYGUARD
dialog: Coming.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: What the hell am I paying them for?
dialog: They head for the stairwell.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 78
text: A small ARMY of Hong Kong police lead by a HONG KONG DETECTIVE
dialog: descends on the building.
scene_heading: 79 INT. MEZZANINE LEVEL, L.S.I. HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 79
text: Lau and his men make their way out onto the mezzanine.
text: Across the room, something makes a CRASHING SOUND. Lau's
text: men fan out, trying to cover the room with their flashlights.
text: Suddenly, one of the flashlights goes DARK. Then another.
speaker_heading: Someone SCREAMS.
text: Lau FIRES. Then FIRES again. The muzzle flash from his
dialog: weapon STROBES the room.
scene_heading: 80 EXT. L.S.I. HOLDINGS, HONG KONG -- NIGHT 80
text: Cops SWARM into the building. A LOBBY SECURITY GUARD directs
dialog: the Hong Kong Detective where to go...
scene_heading: 81 INT. OFFICE, L.S.I.HOLDINGS -- NIGHT 81
text: Lau LOCKS the door. RELOADS. The door is KICKED open. Lau
dialog: FIRES. No one is there.
text: Lau stares, finger restless on the trigger. From his right--
text: a NOISE. He turns and FIRES.
text: In the muzzle FLASH: Batman, bearing down on him like a demon.
dialog: Lau FIRES, and FIRES again as Batman TACKLES him. Batman
text: pulls out a SMALL PACK- STRAPS it onto Lau-
dialog: The COUNTER on the sticky bombs hits 0-
dialog: The Hong Kong Detective and the Cops BURST into the room-
scene_heading: the WALL AND CEILING BEHIND BATMAN AND LAU EXPLODES- revealing
dialog: the dawn sky above Hong Kong.
text: The Detective looks around as he hears a LOW RUMBLE...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 42.
text: Batman JERKS the RIPCORD on Lau's pack. Cops cower as a
text: WEATHER BALLOON EXPLODES out of the pack, unreeling high-
dialog: test nylon. The Cops cock their weapons.
text: Lau looks up. Bemused. The weather balloon is two hundred
text: feet up, swaying gently. The RUMBLE BUILDS...
text: Suddenly, a MASSIVE C-130 ROARS over. The large V on the
text: front of the plane SNAGS the line- Lau and BATMAN are YANKED
dialog: THROUGH THE HOLE IN THE CEILING--
text: Lau SCREAMS as he and Batman SOAR UP INTO THE DAWN SKY...
text: The Detective looks up. Batman and Lau are gone.
scene_heading: 82 INT. GORDON'S OFFICE, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 82
text: Gordon is looking through case files. Ramirez walks in.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: You're gonna want to see this.
speaker_heading: 83 EXT. MCU -- DAY 83
text: Gordon follows Ramirez through a CROWD of excited cops. On
text: the ground, trussed like a chicken- Lau. A sign taped to
dialog: his chest: 'Please deliver to Lieutenant Gordon.'
scene_heading: 84 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 84
text: Lau sits next to his sleazy lawyer, EVANS. Rachel walks in.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Give us the money and we'll deal.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: The money is the only reason I'm
dialog: still alive.
text: Rachel leans forward, speaking softly. Clearly.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You mean when they hear that you've
dialog: helped us they're going to kill you?
speaker_heading: EVANS
dialog: Are you threatening my client?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: No, I'm just assuming your client's
dialog: cooperation with this investigation.
dialog: As will everyone.
dialog: (moves to the door)
dialog: Enjoy your stay in County, Mr.Lau.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 43.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Wait.
dialog: (Rachel stops)
dialog: I won't give you the money, but I'll
dialog: give you my clients. All of them.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You were a glorified accountant-
dialog: what could you have on all of them
dialog: that we could charge?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: I'm good with calculation- I handled
dialog: all their investments. One big pot.
scene_heading: 85 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 85
text: Dent hits a buzzer. Turns to Gordon.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I've got it. RICO. If their money
dialog: was pooled we can charge all of them
dialog: as one criminal conspiracy.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Charge them with what?
dialog: Rachel enters.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: In a RICO case if we can charge any
dialog: of the conspirators with a felony-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: We can charge all of them with it.
text: Dent nods at Rachel, excited.
scene_heading: 86 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 86
dialog: Rachel comes back in.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Mr. Lau, do you have details of this
dialog: communal fund? Ledgers, notebooks...?
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Immunity, protection and a chartered
dialog: plane back to Hong Kong.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Once you've testified in open court.
dialog: So with your clients locked up, what
dialog: happens to all that money?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 44.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: Like I said- I'm good with
dialog: calculation.
scene_heading: 87 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- CONTINUOUS 87
dialog: Dent and Gordon watch Lau.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He can't go to County. I'll keep
dialog: him here in the holding cells.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: What is this Gordon, your fortress?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You trust them over at County?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I don't trust them here.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Lau stays.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It's your call, Lieutenant. Be right.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I am, counselor.
scene_heading: 88 EXT. CITY HALL -- DAY 88
text: Dent stands in front of a small crowd of reporters.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: The Chinese government claim their
dialog: international rights have been broken.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I don't know about Mr. Lau's travel
dialog: arrangements...
scene_heading: 89 INT. RESTAURANT -- CONTINUOUS 89
text: Dent's press conference plays on a TV in the corner.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (grins)
dialog: ...but I'm sure glad he's back.
dialog: Maroni and the Chechen are watching the TV.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: I put word out. We hire the clown.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 45.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN (CONT'D)
dialog: (off look)
dialog: He was right. We have to fix real
dialog: problem. Batman.
text: Maroni shakes his head. Spots Gordon walking over dangling
text: a pair of handcuffs. Nods at the TV.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Our boy looks good on the tube.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: You sure you want to embarrass me in
dialog: front of my friends, Lieutenant?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Don't worry, they're coming, too.
text: Gordon points out the window to a PRISON BUS.
scene_heading: 90 EXT. VARIOUS DOWNTOWN AND OUTLYING LOCATIONS -- DAY 90
dialog: Prison buses in every neighborhood. COPS load them with
text: CRIMINALS. Stephens puts Crime Boss in a prison bus.
scene_heading: 91 INT. COURTROOM A, GOTHAM MUNICIPAL COURTHOUSE -- DAY 91
text: JUDGE SURRILLO reads the list of charges.
speaker_heading: JUDGE SURRILLO
dialog: ...849 counts racketeering, 246 counts
dialog: fraud, 87 counts conspiracy murder...
text: Judge Surrillo turns the page. A PLAYING CARD sits there.
text: A Joker. He glances at it, curious, puts it to one side.
speaker_heading: JUDGE SURRILLO (CONT'D)
dialog: ...how do the defendants plead?
text: An ARMY of DEFENSE LAWYERS jostle YELLING ALL AT ONCE. The
text: STENOGRAPHER looks up, helpless.
scene_heading: 92 INT. MAYOR'S OFFICE -- DAY 92
text: The MAYOR, COMMISSIONER LOEB, and Gordon look up as Dent
dialog: enters.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: DENT! What was that circus?!
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I asked Gordon to make some arrests.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 46.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: (looks at report)
dialog: Five hundred and-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Forty-nine, sir.
text: Gordon nods at Dent, approving. Dent grins back.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: 549 criminals at once?! How did you
dialog: convince Surrillo to hear this farce?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: She shares my enthusiasm for justice.
dialog: After all, she is a judge.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Even if you blow enough smoke to get
dialog: convictions out of Surrillo, you'll
dialog: set a new record at appeals for
dialog: quickest kick in the ass.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It won't matter. The head guys make
dialog: bail, sure... but the mid-level guys,
dialog: they can't, and they can't afford to
dialog: be off the streets long enough for
dialog: trial and appeal. They'll cut deals
dialog: that include some jail time. Think
dialog: of all you could do with 18 months
dialog: of clean streets.
dialog: The Mayor waves Gordon and Loeb out.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: The public likes you, Dent. That's
dialog: the only reason this might fly. But
dialog: that means it's on you. They're all
dialog: coming after you, now. Not just the
dialog: mob... politicians, journalists,
dialog: cops-anyone whose wallet's about to
dialog: get lighter. Are you up to it?
dialog: (Dent smiles)
dialog: You better be. They get anything on
dialog: you... those criminals will be back
dialog: on the streets...
text: The Mayor turns to look out of the window. Quiet.
speaker_heading: MAYOR (CONT'D)
dialog: Followed swiftly by you and me-
text: BANG! A DARK SHAPE CRACKS THE GLASS in front of the Mayor's
text: nose. Dent rushes to the window, looks out...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 47.
scene_heading: 93 EXT. CITY HALL -- CONTINUOUS 93
dialog: PEDESTRIANS look up, someone SCREAMS, someone POINTS- five
text: stories up... SWINGING from a FLAGPOLE...
text: BATMAN. HANGING BY HIS NECK. DEAD. His mouth roughly
speaker_heading: painted in a DEMONIC CLOWN SMILE.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. CITY HALL -- MOMENTS LATER 94
dialog: "Batman" is lowered from the flagpole. The same fake Batman
text: we saw earlier. Pinned to his chest by a KNIFE, a PLAYING
text: CARD. A Joker. Gordon moves closer to the body. The card
dialog: has writing on it: WILL THE REAL BATMAN PLEASE STAND UP?
scene_heading: 95 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAY 95
text: Wayne comes into the living room, excited. Alfred is
dialog: supervising party arrangements.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How's it going?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I think your fundraiser will be a
dialog: great success, sir.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And why do you think I wanted to
dialog: hold a party for Harvey Dent?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I assumed it was your usual reason
dialog: for socialising beyond myself and
dialog: the scum of Gotham's underbelly: to
dialog: try and impress Miss Dawes.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Very droll. But very wrong. Actually
dialog: it's Dent. You see-
speaker_heading: MAYOR
text: Wayne trails off as he spots something
dialog: on the television: the Batman HANGING
dialog: as from a NEWS CAMERA, framed by a
dialog: graphic that reads 'BATMAN DEAD?' .
dialog: Image cuts to Engel in the studio.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: ...Police released video footage
dialog: found concealed on the body.
dialog: Sensitive viewers be aware: it is
dialog: disturbing.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 48.
text: The image cuts to a BLINDFOLDED MAN, wearing a makeshift
dialog: Batman costume- face bruised and bloody. In some kind of
text: bright, fluorescent-lit room.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Tell them your name.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (weak)
dialog: Brian Douglas.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Are you the real Batman?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Why do you dress up like him?
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: He's a symbol... that we don't have
dialog: to be afraid of scum like you...
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: But you do, Brian. You really do.
dialog: You think the Batman's helped Gotham?
dialog: Brian nods uncertainly...
speaker_heading: VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Look at me.
dialog: (Brian looks down)
speaker_heading: LOOK AT ME!
text: Brian looks up- the camera swings into the face of the Joker,
text: in CHALK-WHITE makeup, RED SMEAR of lipstick on his SCARS.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: This is how crazy Batman's made
dialog: Gotham. You want order in Gotham?
dialog: Batman has to go. So...
dialog: (leans in)
dialog: Batman must take off his mask, and
dialog: turn himself in. Every day he
dialog: doesn't... people will die. Starting
dialog: tonight. I'm a man of my word.
text: The tape cuts to STATIC.
dialog: Wayne turns to Alfred. Silent.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 49.
scene_heading: 96 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- EVENING 96
text: Dent and Rachel get off the lift. Dent stands in awe of the
dialog: penthouse and its guests.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Now I've seen it all: Harvey Dent,
dialog: scourge of the underworld, scared
dialog: stiff by the trust fund brigade.
dialog: Rachel spots someone and darts off-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Rachel-
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: A little liquid courage, Mr. Dent?
text: Dent turns to see Alfred with drinks on a silver tray.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Thanks. Alfred, right?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Rachel talks about you all the time.
dialog: You've known her her whole life?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Not yet, sir.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (smiles, surveys crowd)
dialog: Any psychotic ex-boyfriends I should
dialog: be aware of?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, you have no idea.
text: Alfred leaves Dent standing there, puzzled. The crowd REACTS
text: as a LOUD ROAR drowns conversation... Dent looks out-
scene_heading: 97 EXT. HELIPAD, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 97
text: Wayne's CHOPPER touches down. He spills out with a clutch
dialog: of
dialog: SUPERMODELS...
scene_heading: 98 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 98
text: Wayne and the supermodels come out of the helipad elevator-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 50.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sorry, I'm late- glad you started
dialog: without me! Where's Rachel?!
text: Rachel cringes slightly. Wayne spots her.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Rachel Dawes- my oldest friend.
dialog: When she told me she was dating Harvey
dialog: Dent, I had one thing to say... the
dialog: guy from those god-awful campaign
dialog: commercials?
text: Laughter. Dent shifts, embarrassed.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: II Believe in Harvey Dent.' Nice
dialog: slogan, Harvey. Certainly caught
dialog: Rachel's attention. But then I
dialog: started paying attention to Harvey,
dialog: and all he's been doing as our new
dialog: D.A., and you know what? I believe
dialog: in Harvey Dent. On his watch, Gotham
dialog: can feel a little safer. A little
dialog: more optimistic. So get out your
dialog: checkbooks and let's make sure that
dialog: he stays right where all of Gotham
dialog: wants him...
dialog: (raises his glass)
dialog: All except Gotham's criminals, of
dialog: course. To the face of Gotham's
dialog: bright future- Harvey Dent.
text: Dent smiles accepting the toast.
scene_heading: 99 INT. CORRIDOR, MCU -- EVENING 99
text: Ramirez catches up to Gordon, holding paperwork.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: That Joker card pinned to the body?
dialog: Forensics found three sets of D.N.A..
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Any matches?
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: All three.
dialog: Gordon STOPS. Turns to face her.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ (CONT'D)
dialog: The D.N.A. belongs to Judge Surrillo,
dialog: Harvey Dent and Commissioner Loeb.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 51.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The Joker's telling us who he's
dialog: targeting- get a unit to Surrillo's
dialog: house, tell Wuertz to find Dent- get
dialog: them both into protective custody.
dialog: Where's the Commissioner?
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: City hall.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Seal the building. No one in or out
dialog: till I get there.
scene_heading: 100 EXT. DECK, WAYNE'S PENTHOUSE -- EVENING 100
text: Wayne walks out to the edge of the balcony and looks over
text: Gotham. Hears someone behind him- Rachel.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey may not know you well enough
dialog: to understand when you're making fun
dialog: of him. But I do.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (shakes his head)
dialog: I meant every word.
text: Wayne moves closer to Rachel. Takes her arm.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: The day you once told me about, the
dialog: day when Gotham no longer needs
dialog: Batman. It's coming.
text: Rachel looks at Wayne. Conflicted. He moves closer.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You can't ask me to wait for that.
text: Wayne takes Rachel's arms, looking at her, excited.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It's happening now- Harvey is that
dialog: hero. He locked up half the city's
dialog: criminals, and he did it without
dialog: wearing a mask. Gotham needs a hero
dialog: with a face.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You can throw a party, Wayne, I'll
dialog: give you that. Thanks again. Mind
dialog: if I borrow Rachel?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 52.
text: Rachel glances back at Wayne as she moves to Dent. Wayne
dialog: watches them head inside.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. STREET, GOTHAM HEIGHTS -- EVENING 101
text: Two MEN in suits knock at a Brownstone. The door is opened
text: by Judge Surrillo. The two Men hold up BADGES.
scene_heading: 102 EXT. CITY HALL -- EVENING 102
text: Gordon enters through a tight police presence at the doors.
scene_heading: 103 INT. POLICE COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE -- EVENING 103
text: Gordon enters to find Loeb, flanked by armed cops.
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER LOEB
dialog: Gordon, what are you playing at?
text: Gordon checks the window. Turns to his men.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We're secure. I want a floor-by-
dialog: floor search of the entire building.
dialog: (turns to Loeb)
dialog: I'm sorry, sir. We believe the Joker
dialog: has made a threat against your life.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: Gordon, you're unlikely to discover
dialog: this for yourself, so take my word-
dialog: the Police Commissioner earns a lot
dialog: of threats...
text: Loeb pulls a bottle of whisky and a tumbler from a drawer.
speaker_heading: LOEB (CONT'D)
dialog: I found the appropriate response to
dialog: these situations a long time ago...
scene_heading: 104 EXT. STREET, GOTHAM HEIGHTS -- EVENING 104
text: The second man is waiting by the Judge's car.
speaker_heading: SURRILLO
dialog: Gordon wants me to go right now?
speaker_heading: MAN 1
dialog: These are dangerous people, Judge.
dialog: Even we don't know where you're going.
text: He hands Surrillo a sealed envelope. Opens the car door.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 53.
speaker_heading: MAN 2
dialog: Get in, then open the envelope.
dialog: It'll tell you where you're headed.
text: Surrillo climbs in. Watches them drive away. She opens the
text: envelope- pulls out a sheet of paper. One word on it:
dialog: 'UP'.
text: Surrillo's car EXPLODES, heaving the car upwards on a
speaker_heading: FIREBALL.
text: A PASSERBY is thrown to the ground. After a moment, BURNING
text: DEBRIS flutters down on him. PLAYING CARDS. JOKERS.
scene_heading: 105 INT. POLICE COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE -- CONTINUOUS 105
text: Loeb pours himself a glass of whisky.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: You get to explain to my wife why
dialog: I'm late for dinner, Lieutenant.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Sir, the Joker card had a trace of
dialog: your D.N.A. on it-
text: A bang at the door. Gordon pulls his weapon, then opens it.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: Just the normal number of bad guys
dialog: in the building- and they're all
dialog: city employees. Here's a list.
speaker_heading: LOEB
dialog: How'd they get my D.N.A.?
dialog: Gordon looks at Stephens's list.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Somebody with access to your house
dialog: or office must've lifted a tissue or
dialog: a glass...
dialog: Gordon, realizing, spins around-
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Wait-
text: But Loeb is already CHOKING- he DROPS his tumbler onto the
text: desk- the spilled whiskey is SMOKING, eating into the wood.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Get a medic!
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 54.
speaker_heading: Loeb COLLAPSES.
scene_heading: 106 INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- EVENING 106
text: Dent pulls Rachel into the kitchen, away from the crowd.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You cannot leave me on my own with
dialog: these people.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: The whole mob's after you and you're
dialog: worried about these guys?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Compared to this, the mob doesn't
dialog: scare me. Although, I will say:
dialog: them gunning for you makes you see
dialog: things clearly.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Oh, yeah?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Yeah. It makes you think about what
dialog: you couldn't stand losing. And who
dialog: you want to spend the rest of your
dialog: life with...
text: Rachel looks at Dent. Smiles.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: The rest of your life, huh? That's
dialog: a pretty big commitment.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Not if the mob has their way.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Don't.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Okay. Let's be serious. What's
dialog: your answer?
text: Rachel looks at him.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I don't have an answer.
scene_heading: 107 INT. LIVING ROOM, PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 107
text: Half the guests are on their cell phones. An ASSISTANT DA
text: turns to his COLLEAGUE.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 55.
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT DA
dialog: Surrillo and Loeb?
text: There is a KNOCK at the front door. Alfred opens it- find
text: Detective Wuertz, who holds up his badge. Alfred beckons
text: him in- there is a SHOTGUN at the back of his head held by-
dialog: The Joker- purple suit, make up. With friends. The Joker
text: SMASHES Wuertz over the head- steps over him, RACKING the
dialog: shotgun.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Good evening. We're the
dialog: entertainment.
scene_heading: 108 INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 108
text: Rachel is looking at Dent. Torn.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I guess no answer isn't "no".
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I'm sorry, Harvey. I just...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It's someone else, isn't it?
text: Wayne is moving up behind him. Fast-
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Just tell me it's not Wayne. The
dialog: guy's a complete-
text: Rachel's eyes go wide as Wayne puts Dent in a SLEEPER HOLD--
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: What are you doing?!
text: Dent SLUMPS, unconscious in Wayne's arms.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: They've come for him.
text: From the main room- A SHOTGUN BLAST followed by SCREAMS.
text: Wayne stuffs Dent in a closet- puts a mop through the handles.
dialog: Rushes past Rachel-
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Stay hidden.
scene_heading: 109 INT. LIVING ROOM, WAYNE'S PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 109
text: The Joker and his THUGS pour into the room, weapons raised.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 56.
scene_heading: 110 INT. HALLWAY, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 110
text: A THUG appears in front of Wayne, toting a shotgun.
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: Hands up, pretty boy.
dialog: Wayne FLIPS the shotgun around in the man's hands- uses it
text: as a fulcrum to SNAP his forearm- SMASHES him in the jaw
dialog: with the stock without breaking step, field stripping the
text: shotgun and tossing the pieces in different directions.
scene_heading: 111 INT. LIVING ROOM, WAYNE'S PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 111
text: The Joker moves through the terrified guests. Smiling.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I only have one question: where is
dialog: Harvey Dent?
dialog: (silence)
dialog: I'll settle for his loved ones...
text: A distinguished Gentleman steps into the Joker's path.
speaker_heading: GENTLEMAN
dialog: We're not intimidated by thugs.
text: The Joker stops. Stares at the man. SMILES AFFECTIONATELY.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: You know, you remind me of my father.
speaker_heading: (GRABS him)
dialog: I hated my father.
text: The Joker has his blade in the Gentleman's mouth.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Stop!
text: The Joker drops the Gentleman. Turns to Rachel.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Hello, beautiful. You must be
dialog: Harvey's squeeze.
dialog: (runs his knife across
dialog: her cheek)
dialog: And you are beautiful. You look
dialog: nervous- it's the scars isn't it?
dialog: Wanna know how I got them? I had a
dialog: wife, beautiful like you. Who tells
dialog: me I worry too much. Who says I
dialog: need to smile more. Who gambles.
dialog: And gets in deep with the sharks.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 57.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: One day they carve her face, and
dialog: we've got no money for surgeries.
dialog: She can't take it.
dialog: (presses knife into
dialog: her cheek)
dialog: I just want to see her smile again.
dialog: I just want her to know I don't care
dialog: about the scars. So I put a razor
dialog: in my mouth and do this to myself...
dialog: And you know what?
dialog: (starts laughing)
dialog: She can't stand the sight of me...
dialog: (or crying)
dialog: She leaves! See, now I see the funny
dialog: side. Now I'm always smiling.
scene_heading: 112 INT. MASTER BEDROOM, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 112
text: Wayne walks in. A COUPLE are hastily putting themselves
text: back together, alerted by the noise.
speaker_heading: MALE GUEST
dialog: What's going on out there, Wayne?
text: Wayne doesn't answer. He walks into a closet and pulls at a
text: FALSE WALL. Wayne steps into the safe room.
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: Thank god- you've got a panic room.
text: The door SLAMS shut and seals with a HISS.
speaker_heading: MALE GUEST
dialog: Wait! You can't-
speaker_heading: FEMALE GUEST
dialog: You've got to be kidding me.
scene_heading: 113 INT. LIVING ROOM, WAYNE'S PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 113
text: The Joker raises his knife from Rachel's cheek. She SLUGS
dialog: him. He smiles.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: A little fight in you. I like that.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Then you're going to love me.
text: The Joker turns. Batman catches him with a BLOW, spins him
dialog: down and DISARMS him- the Joker's men jump him- Batman takes
dialog: them out two at a time- DISARMING thugs- BREAKING forearms--
text: the Joker CLICKS a BLADE from the toe of his shoe and KICKS-
text: JABBING BETWEEN THE PLATES OF ARMOR covering Batman's ribcage-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 58.
text: Batman HURLS the Joker across the room. One of the Joker's
dialog: men LUNGES- Batman lays him out cold.
text: The Joker has another knife pressed to Rachel's neck.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Drop the knife.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Sure. Just take off your mask and
dialog: show us all who you are...
text: Rachel shakes her head at Batman. The Joker raises his
text: shotgun to the side and BLOWS OUT the pane of glass next to
text: him. The Joker dangles Rachel out the window.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Let her go.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Very poor choice of words...
text: He lets her DROP- Rachel falls onto a SLOPING GLASS ROOF-
text: sliding towards the edge. Batman DIVES after her-
scene_heading: 114 EXT. BUILDING -- NIGHT 114
dialog: They DROP- Batman FIRES his grapple, SNAGGING Rachel's ankle-
dialog: activates one wing of his cape- They SPIN and SLOW- Batman
text: envelopes Rachel- they SLAM into the hood of a passing taxi.
scene_heading: 115 INT. TAXI -- CONTINUOUS 115
text: The DRIVER SCREAMS as Batman and Rachel hit the roof- ROLL
text: down the windshield- onto the pavement. Alive.
scene_heading: 116 INT. CAR -- CONTINUOUS 116
text: The Joker looks back as his car SPEEDS away. He's breathing
text: hard, EXHILARATED. He touches the blood running down his
text: sweaty white makeup. SMACKS the back of the driver's seat-
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: What do we do about Dent?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I'm a man of my word.
scene_heading: 117 EXT. TAXI -- CONTINUOUS 117
text: Rachel opens her eyes.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Are you alright?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 59.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Let's not do that again, okay?
dialog: (looks around)
dialog: Is Harvey-?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He's safe.
text: Rachel lies back, breathing. Looks up at Batman.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Thank you.
scene_heading: 118 INT. MAJOR CRIMES UNIT, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 118
text: STEPHENS is talking to Gordon, subdued.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: Jim, it's over.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: As long as they don't get to Lau,
dialog: we've cut off their funds.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: But the prosecution's over.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS (CONT'D)
dialog: No-one's standing up in front of a
dialog: Judge while judges and police
dialog: commissioners are getting blown away.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What about Dent?
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: If he's got any sense, Dent's halfway
dialog: to Mexico by now.
text: The door BURSTS OPEN. Dent. Fire in his eyes.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: So where do you keep your trash?
text: Gordon looks at Dent. Impressed.
scene_heading: 119 INT. SPECIAL HOLDING AREA, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 119
text: Lau looks up as Dent walks in, holding a bullet proof vest.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You're due in court- I need you alive
dialog: long enough to get you on the record.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 60.
speaker_heading: LAU
dialog: No way. You can't protect me- you
dialog: can't even protect yourselves.
dialog: Dent THROWS the heavy vest at Lau.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Refuse to cooperate on the stand-
dialog: you won't be coming back here- you'll
dialog: go to county. How long do you
dialog: calculate you'll last in there?
scene_heading: 120 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- DAY 120
text: Wayne sits at his video screens- they all play the Joker's
text: video with different IMAGE TREATMENTS and SOUND TUNINGS.
text: Wayne turns to Alfred. Indicates the screens.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Targeting me won't get their money
dialog: back. I knew the mob wouldn't go
dialog: down without a fight, but this is
dialog: different. They've crossed a line.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You crossed it first, sir. You've
dialog: hammered them, squeezed them to the
dialog: point of desperation. And now, in
dialog: their desperation they've turned to
dialog: a man they don't fully understand.
text: Wayne gets up from his monitors, raises the bat-cabinet.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Criminals aren't complicated, Alfred.
dialog: We just have to figure out what he's
dialog: after.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Respectfully, Master Wayne, perhaps
dialog: this is a man you don't fully
dialog: understand, either.
dialog: (looks at Wayne)
dialog: I was in Burma. A long time ago.
dialog: My friends and I were working for
dialog: the local government. They were
dialog: trying to buy the loyalty of tribal
dialog: leaders, bribing them with precious
dialog: stones. But their caravans were
dialog: being raided in a forest north of
dialog: Rangoon by a bandit. We were asked
dialog: to take care of the problem, so we
dialog: started looking for the stones.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 61.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: But after six months, we couldn't
dialog: find anyone who had traded with him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What were you missing?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: One day I found a child playing with
dialog: a ruby as big as a tangerine.
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: The bandit had been throwing the
dialog: stones away.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: So why was he stealing them?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Because he thought it was good sport.
dialog: Because some men aren't looking for
dialog: anything logical, like money... they
dialog: can't be bought, bullied, reasoned
dialog: or negotiated with.
dialog: (grave)
dialog: Some men just want to watch the world
dialog: burn.
text: Wayne stares at Alfred. Reaches for the bat-suit.
scene_heading: 121 EXT. SKYLINE OF GOTHAM -- DAWN 121
dialog: MOVING over the city we hear myriad RADIO CALLS going out
text: over the ether. CLOSE IN on a lonely figure on top of a
dialog: skyscraper. The Batman. Listening with his million dollar
text: earpieces. From the babble, ONE VOICE EMERGES.
speaker_heading: DISPATCH (O.S.)
dialog: Your name, sir. Please state-
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: 8th at orchard. You'll find Harvey
dialog: Dent there.
scene_heading: 122 EXT. 8TH STREET AT ORCHARD -- DAWN 122
text: An UNMARKED and a SQUAD CAR screech to a halt. Gordon and
text: Ramirez get out, lead two UNIFORMS into the building.
scene_heading: 123 INT. APARTMENT, EIGHT AVE. -- CONTINUOUS 123
text: The door SMASHES OPEN, Gordon- gun drawn- takes in the scene.
text: TWO DEAD MEN sitting at the kitchen table. They each have a
text: HAND OF CARDS, as if in the middle of a game. ALL JOKERS.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 62.
dialog: Gordon and Ramirez STARE at the CRUDE LEERS carved into their
text: faces. Their DRIVERS LICENSES are pinned to their chests.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Check the names.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (checks licenses)
dialog: Patrick Harvey. Richard Dent...
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Harvey Dent.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I need ten minutes with the scene
dialog: before your men contaminate it.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Us contaminate it? It's because of
dialog: you that these guys are dead in the
dialog: first place-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Ramirez.
text: She stands down. Batman moves past the bodies to the wall.
text: Finds an embedded stray bullet. He pulls a SAWING DEVICE
text: from his belt- THRUSTS it into the wall and starts cutting
dialog: around the bullet.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: That's brick- you're gonna try and
dialog: take ballistics off a shattered
dialog: bullet?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. Fingerprints.
dialog: Ramirez looks at Gordon. Is he serious? Gordon points-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Whatever you're gonna do, do it fast,
dialog: 'cos we know his next target...
dialog: Batman looks- a campaign poster: RE-ELECT MAYOR GARCIA. The
text: Mayor's image has a MANIC CLOWN'S GRIN and "HA,HA,HA".
scene_heading: 124 INT. FOX'S OFFICE, WAYNE ENTERPRISES -- DAY 124
text: Fox is at his desk. Reese enters.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What can I do for you, Mr. Reese?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 63.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: You asked me to do the diligence on
dialog: the L.S.I. Holdings deal again. I
dialog: found irregularities.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Their CEO is in police custody.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Not with their numbers. With yours.
dialog: A whole division of Wayne Industries
dialog: disappeared, overnight. So I went
dialog: down to the archives and started
dialog: pulling old files.
text: He pulls out a folded blueprint. Slides it across the desk.
speaker_heading: REESE (CONT'D)
dialog: My kids love the Batman. I thought
dialog: he was pretty cool, too. Out there,
dialog: kicking some ass.
text: Fox picks up the piece of paper. Unfolds it. It's an old
text: BLUEPRINT. The image is unmistakable: THE TUMBLER.
speaker_heading: REESE (CONT'D)
dialog: Changes things when you know it's
dialog: just a rich kid playing dress up.
text: Reese points to the approval box in the corner of the page.
speaker_heading: REESE (CONT'D)
dialog: Your project. Don't tell me you
dialog: didn't recognize your baby pancaking
dialog: cop cars on the evening news. Now
dialog: you're getting sloppy. Applied
dialog: Sciences was a small, dead department-
dialog: who'd notice? But now you've got
dialog: the entire R and D department burning
dialog: cash, claiming it's related to cell
dialog: phones for the army. What are you
dialog: building him now? A rocket ship? I
dialog: want ten million a year. For the
dialog: rest of my life.
text: Fox looks at him. Even. Folds up the blueprint.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Let me get this straight. You think
dialog: that your client, one of the
dialog: wealthiest and most powerful men in
dialog: the world, is secretly a vigilante
dialog: who spends his nights beating
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 64.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: criminals to a pulp with his bare
dialog: hands...
dialog: (deadpan)
dialog: And now your plan is to blackmail
dialog: this person?
text: Reese stares at Fox. Who smiles. And slides the blueprint
dialog: across the desk.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: Good luck.
text: Reese looks at it. Then at Fox. Swallows. Slides it back.
scene_heading: 125 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- DAY 125
text: Wayne hands Alfred a RIFLE BULLET scribed with a GRID. He
text: slots it into a clip, then loads it into a COMPUTER CONTROLLED
text: GATTLING GUN. He puts on ear protectors. Hits a button.
text: The rifle WHIRS to life- dollying sideways, BLASTING BULLETS
text: into a series of identical BRICK WALL SAMPLES.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm not sure you made it loud enough,
dialog: sir.
text: As the wall samples still smoke, Wayne steps up, carrying
dialog: the sample from the crime scene. Comparing its spread to
text: the new samples, he selects two and carries them to an X-RAY
speaker_heading: SCANNER.
text: The machine gives the samples a 3-axis scan- HI-RES 3-D IMAGES
text: of the bullet fragment arrays come up on the screen...
scene_heading: 126 INT. APPLIED SCIENCES DIVISION -- DAY 126
text: The same image of the bullet fragment on a screen. Fox hits
dialog: a key and the computer 'reassembles' the bullets according
dialog: to the identifying grid on each fragment.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Here's your original scan...
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: A bullet fragment array pops on
dialog: screen.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Here's it reverse-engineered...
text: Fox hits a button and the unmarked bullet fragments are
text: reassembled. Wayne spins the roughly-shaped bullet puzzle-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 65.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And here's a thumb print.
text: Fox looks at the screen, impressed. Thinks.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'll make you a copy.
dialog: (troubled)
dialog: Mr. Wayne, did you reassign R and D?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yes. Government telecommunications
dialog: project.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I wasn't aware we had any new
dialog: government contracts. Can you-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Lucius. I'm playing this one pretty
dialog: close to the chest.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Fair enough.
text: Fox looks at Wayne as he leaves. Uneasy.
scene_heading: 127 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS -- INTERCUT 127
dialog: Wayne examines the fingerprint-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I've run it through all the databases
dialog: and came up with four possibles.
dialog: Wayne gets up to let Alfred sit.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: Cross-reference the addresses. Look
dialog: for Parkside and around.
text: Wayne opens a HYDRAULIC DOOR, revealing a gleaming MV AUGUSTA
text: BRUTALE. As he moves the bike onto the lift...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Got one. Melvin White, aggravated
dialog: assault, moved to Arkham twice- 1502
dialog: Randolph Apartments, just off State-
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Overlooking the parade.
text: Wayne and the bike rise on the lift.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 66.
scene_heading: 128 EXT. PARKSIDE AVENUE -- DAY 128
text: The avenue has been blocked off. Onlookers line the
text: sidewalks. POLICE march past in dress uniform. Engel does
text: a stand-up on the sidewalk.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: With no word from the Batman- even
dialog: as they mourn Commissioner Loeb,
dialog: these cops have to be wondering if
dialog: the Joker is going to make good on
dialog: his threat to kill the Mayor today...
text: On the buildings above, POLICE SNIPERS scan the crowd.
dialog: Gordon keys his radio-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: How's it looking up top?
speaker_heading: POLICE SNIPER
dialog: We're tight. But frankly... there's
dialog: a lot of windows up here.
text: Gordon looks up at the myriad buildings overlooking the
dialog: podium.
scene_heading: 129 EXT. GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 129
text: Wayne maneuvers the Ducati through the traffic. He pulls up
text: near a parade barricade- dismounts and slips into an alley.
scene_heading: 130 INT. TENEMENT -- CONTINUOUS 130
dialog: Some of the building's hard-luck TENANTS eye Wayne as he
text: counts doors down the hallway. He finds 1502...
scene_heading: 131 EXT. PARKSIDE AVENUE -- LATER 131
text: A SEA OF POLICE fills the Avenue. In the center, three
text: grieving families and an HONOR GUARD. The Mayor at the
text: podium. Gordon behind. Dent is seated with Rachel.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: ...and as we recognize the sacrifice
dialog: of these officers, we must remember
dialog: that vigilance is the price of safety.
scene_heading: 132 INT. TENEMENT -- CONTINUOUS 132
text: Wayne enters: EIGHT MEN IN UNDERSHIRTS, bound, gagged,
text: blindfolded. A SNIPER SCOPE on a tripod at the window.
text: Wayne moves to the first man, RIPS the tape from his mouth.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 67.
speaker_heading: MAN
dialog: (breathing hard)
dialog: Took... they took our guns, our
dialog: uniforms...
scene_heading: 133 EXT. PARKSIDE AVENUE -- CONTINUOUS 133
text: Gordon scans the crowd. The Mayor wraps up- the Honor Guard
dialog: steps forward, raises weapons...
scene_heading: 134 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 134
text: A POLICE SNIPER scans the windows of the tenement...
scene_heading: 135 INT. TENEMENT -- CONTINUOUS 135
dialog: Wayne RACES to the window, looks through the SCOPE to see:
scene_heading: 136 EXT. STATE STREET -- CONTINUOUS 136
text: THE HONOR GUARD TURN THEIR WEAPONS ON THE MAYOR. One SMILES,
text: flesh-colored makeup over his scars. THE JOKER.
dialog: Gordon LEAPS FORWARD- they FIRE- GORDON TAKES SHOTS TO THE
dialog: BACK as he SLAMS the Mayor to the ground-
scene_heading: 137 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 137
text: The Police Sniper SPOTS Wayne at the window- SHOOTS
scene_heading: 138 INT. TENEMENT -- CONTINUOUS 138
text: Wayne DUCKS as SHOTS erupt around the window-
scene_heading: 139 EXT. PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 139
dialog: PANDEMONIUM erupts-One of the honor guard is TAGGED IN THE
text: LEG- GOES DOWN. The others MELT into the CHAOS.
text: On the podium, Stephens rolls Gordon over... he is not moving.
scene_heading: 140 EXT. SIDE STREET OFF PARKSIDE -- MOMENTS LATER 140
text: CHAOS. Dent approaches an ambulance sitting in the alley.
text: Two cops jump out and run over to their commander. Dent
text: steps up into the back.
scene_heading: 141 INT. AMBULANCE -- CONTINUOUS 141
text: The Joker's thug sits there. Handcuffed. A PARAMEDIC
text: bandages his leg. Cops run past, barking orders.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 68.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Tell me what you know about the Joker.
text: The Joker's thug looks at Dent. Smirks. Dent looks down.
text: Exasperated. Looks back up at the Joker's Thug. Spots
dialog: something- moves closer- the man's uniform... his name tag...
speaker_heading: OFFICER RACHEL DAWES.
text: Dent, breathing hard, looks around: the paramedic jumps out,
text: rushing to help a FALLEN OFFICER. Dent spies the keys in
text: the ignition. Jumps into the driver's seat...
scene_heading: 142 EXT. GORDON'S HOUSE -- DUSK 142
text: Barbara Gordon stands in the doorway, scared. Stephens and
text: a UNIFORMED OFFICER stand in front of her.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: I'm sorry, Barbara.
text: James Gordon pushes past his mother to look at Stephens.
text: Barbara tries to push him back inside.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Jimmy, go play with your sister...
text: James stays just inside the door.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: I'm sorry.
text: Barbara stares at Stephens. Then looks past him.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Are you out there?! Are you?!
text: James spots something- Batman, perched in the shadows.
speaker_heading: BARBARA (CONT'D)
dialog: You brought this on us! This
dialog: craziness! You did! You brought
dialog: this...!
text: She collapses into Stephens's arms. Batman hangs his head.
speaker_heading: 143 EXT. ROOF, MCU -- NIGHT 143
text: Detectives from MCU stand around the lit bat-signal.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: Switch it off- he ain't coming.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 69.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS (CONT'D)
dialog: He doesn't want to talk to us. God
dialog: help whoever he does want to talk to-
scene_heading: 144 INT. NIGHTCLUB -- NIGHT 144
text: Strobe lights. Pounding music. Maroni is in a booth at the
text: side with his MISTRESS. His bodyguards are around the table.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS
dialog: (shouting over music)
dialog: Can't we go someplace quieter! We
dialog: can't hear each other talk!
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: I don't wanna hear you talk.
speaker_heading: MISTRESS
dialog: (can't hear)
dialog: What?!
dialog: One of Maroni's Bodyguards DROPS- Maroni looks over- in the
dialog: strobe lights- Batman SAVAGES his bodyguards- people RUN,
text: TERRIFIED. Maroni starts to get out of his seat- Batman
text: LANDS like a panther on the table in front of him-
speaker_heading: 145 INT. MCU -- NIGHT 145
text: Rachel moves through the chaotic bullpen at MCU- EYEWITNESSES,
dialog: civilian and cop are being questioned.
text: Rachel's phone rings.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey, where are you?!
text: INTERCUT with Dent in an INDISTINCT interior setting.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Where are you?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Where you should be- at Major Crimes
dialog: trying to sort through all the-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Rachel, listen to me. You're not
dialog: safe there.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: This is Gordon's unit, Harvey-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Gordon's gone, Rachel.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 70.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: He vouched for these men-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: And he's gone. The Joker's named
dialog: you next.
text: Rachel looks around the bullpen. Eyeing the detectives.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Rachel, I can't let anything happen
dialog: to you. I love you too much. Is
dialog: there someone, anyone in this city
dialog: we can trust?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce. We can trust Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Rachel, I know he's your friend but-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Trust me, Harvey, Bruce's penthouse
dialog: is now the safest place in the city.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Okay. Go straight there. Don't
dialog: tell anyone where you're going.
dialog: I'll find you there.
dialog: Wider shows us we are-
scene_heading: 146 INT. BASEMENT, CONDEMNED BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 146
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I love you.
text: Dent hangs up the phone. TAPED to a chair in front of Dent-
text: the Joker's Thug, blindfolded. Dent RIPS off the blindfold...
scene_heading: 147 EXT. FIRE ESCAPE -- NIGHT 147
text: Maroni opens his eyes. Batman is holding him by the collar.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I want the Joker.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: (looks down)
dialog: From one professional to another- if
dialog: you're trying to scare someone, pick
dialog: a better spot. From this height the
dialog: fall wouldn't kill me.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 71.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm counting on it.
text: Batman lets go. Maroni FALLS. And SCREAMS.
scene_heading: 148 EXT. SIDEWALK -- NIGHT 148
text: Maroni NAILS the pavement. CLUTCHES at his leg, which is
text: badly broken. Batman FLIES down, landing over him- hauls
dialog: him up. Maroni HOLLERS in pain.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Don't know, he found us-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He must have friends.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Friends? You met this guy?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Someone knows where he is.
text: Maroni looks up at Batman. Sneering.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: No one's gonna tell you anything-
dialog: they're wise to your act- you got
dialog: rules... the Joker, he's got no rules.
dialog: No one's gonna cross him for you.
dialog: You want this guy, you got one way.
dialog: And you already know what that is.
dialog: Just take off that mask and let him
dialog: come find you.
speaker_heading: Batman DROPS Maroni.
speaker_heading: MARONI (CONT'D)
dialog: Or you want to let a couple more
dialog: people get killed while you make up
dialog: your mind?
scene_heading: 149 INT. BASEMENT, CONDEMNED BUILDING -- NIGHT 149
text: Dent shows the Joker's Thug a GUN. Bullets. Loads the gun.
dialog: SHOVES it in his face-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You wanna play games?
text: Dent PUSHES the gun against the thug's head with REAL MALICE.
text: Pulls it away and FIRES. The Thug FLINCHES.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 72.
text: Dent puts the gun barrel against the thug's temple-
speaker_heading: JOKER'S THUG
dialog: (rattled)
dialog: You wouldn't...
text: And pulls his lucky coin out of his pocket.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: No. I wouldn't. That's why I'm not
dialog: going to leave it up to me.
dialog: (shows him coin)
dialog: Heads- you get to keep your head.
dialog: Tails... not so lucky. So, you want
dialog: to tell me about the Joker?
text: The Thug, scared, says nothing. Dent FLICKS the coin into
text: the air. SLAPS it onto the back of his gun hand (aiming
text: with wrist horizontal). Dent shows him the coin. Heads.
dialog: The Thug exhales, SHAKING.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Go again?
speaker_heading: JOKER'S THUG
dialog: (sobbing)
dialog: I don't know anything!
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You're not playing the odds, friend.
text: Dent tosses the coin again. This time IT DOESN'T LAND.
dialog: Dent
dialog: Looks up. Batman is there.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You'd leave a man's life to chance?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Not exactly.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: His name's Schiff, Thomas. He's a
dialog: paranoid schizophrenic, a former
dialog: patient at Arkham. The kind of mind
dialog: the Joker attracts.
dialog: Batman moves away from Schiff.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: What do expect to learn from him?
text: Dent is shivering with frustration.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 73.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: The Joker killed Gordon- and, and
dialog: Loeb. He's going to kill Rachel...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You're the symbol of hope that I
dialog: could never be. Your stand against
dialog: organized crime is the first
dialog: legitimate ray of light in Gotham
dialog: for decades. If anyone saw this,
dialog: everything would be undone- all the
dialog: criminals you got off the streets
dialog: would be released. And Jim Gordon
dialog: will have died for nothing.
dialog: Batman hands Dent his lucky coin.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: You're going to call a press
dialog: conference. Tomorrow morning.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No one else will die because of me.
dialog: Gotham is in your hands, now.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You can't! You can't give in!
dialog: But Batman is gone.
scene_heading: 150 INT. BEDROOM, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- NIGHT 150
text: Rachel watches Gotham through the window. Wayne enters.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey called. He says Batman is
dialog: going to turn himself in.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I have no choice.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You honestly think it's going to
dialog: stop the Joker from killing?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Perhaps not. But I've got enough
dialog: blood on my hands. I've seen, now,
dialog: what I would have to become to stop
dialog: men like him.
text: Rachel looks at Wayne. She cannot help him.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 74.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: You once told me that if the day
dialog: came when I was finished...
text: Wayne moves towards her.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: We'd be together.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Bruce, don't make me your one hope
dialog: for a normal life-
text: Wayne takes her in his arms.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: But did you mean it?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Yes.
text: They kiss. Then separate. She looks sadly into his eyes.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONT'D)
dialog: But they won't let us be together
dialog: after you turn yourself in.
text: Wayne nods. Leaves. She watches him go.
scene_heading: 151 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- DAWN 151
text: Alfred shovels DOCUMENTS into an incinerator- blueprints,
text: designs, files. He pauses, looking down at a book.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Even the logs?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Anything that could lead back to
dialog: Lucius or Rachel.
text: Alfred tosses the book onto the fire. STARES at Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: People are dying, Alfred. What would
dialog: you have me do?
text: Alfred looks into Wayne's eyes with a fearsome gaze.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Endure, Master Wayne. Take it.
dialog: They'll hate you for it, but that's
dialog: the point of Batman... he can be the
dialog: outcast. He can make the choice no
dialog: one else can face. The right choice.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 75.
dialog: Wayne shakes his head.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Today I've found out what Batman
dialog: can't do. He can't endure this.
dialog: (rueful smile)
dialog: Today you get to say II told you
dialog: so'.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Today, I don't want to.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Although I did bloody tell you.
text: Wayne sinks the Bat-suit, Alfred closes the incinerator.
dialog: They head for the lift.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: I suppose they'll lock me up as well.
dialog: Your accomplice.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Accomplice? I'm going to tell them
dialog: the whole thing was your idea.
text: They power down, leaving the Bat-bunker in darkness.
scene_heading: 152 INT. PRESS ROOM, SUPERIOR COURT -- DAY 152
text: A capacity crowd of REPORTERS, COPS, and PUBLIC. Dent is at
text: the podium. Wayne sits in the crowd.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you for
dialog: coming. I've called this press
dialog: conference for two reasons. Firstly,
dialog: to assure the citizens of Gotham
dialog: that everything that can be done
dialog: over the Joker killing is being done.
dialog: Secondly, because the Batman has
dialog: offered to turn himself in-
speaker_heading: The crowd REACTS
speaker_heading: HECKLER
dialog: So where is he?!
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: But first. Let's consider the
dialog: situation: should we give in to this
dialog: terrorist's demands? Do we really
dialog: think that-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 76.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: You'd rather protect an outlaw
dialog: vigilante than the lives of citizens?!
text: The crowd noisily assents. Dent calmly motions quiet.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: The Batman is an outlaw...
scene_heading: 153 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 153
text: Rachel is watching the press conference on TV.
speaker_heading: DENT (O.S.)
dialog: But that's not why we're demanding
dialog: he turn himself in. We're doing it
dialog: because we're scared. We've been
dialog: happy to let Batman clean up our
dialog: Streets for us until now-
scene_heading: 154 INT. PRESS ROOM, SUPERIOR COURT -- CONTINUOUS 154
speaker_heading: HECKLER
dialog: Things are worse than ever!
text: Wayne looks at the Heckler. At the angry crowd. Dent leans
text: over the podium. Impassioned.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Yes. They are. But the night is
dialog: darkest just before the dawn. And I
dialog: promise you, the dawn is coming.
dialog: (the crowd quiets)
dialog: One day, the Batman will have to
dialog: answer for the laws he's broken- but
dialog: to us, not to this madman.
text: The crowd seems moved by his words, then, a CHANT-
speaker_heading: COP HECKLER
dialog: NO MORE DEAD COPS!!
dialog: Appreciative noise.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
speaker_heading: WHERE IS THE BATMAN?
text: People take up the chant. Dent has lost them. He knows it.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: So be it.
dialog: (turns to officers)
dialog: Take the Batman into custody.
text: At this, a HUSH DESCENDS. Wayne is sitting towards the back.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 77.
text: Hungry eyes scan the room. Wayne starts to rise... DENT
dialog: OFFERS HIS OWN WRISTS TO THE OFFICERS
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: I am the Batman.
dialog: A beat. Wayne stares.
scene_heading: 155 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 155
text: Rachel STARES as Dent is arrested on TV. Appalled.
scene_heading: 156 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAY 156
text: Rachel comes up to Alfred. Upset.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Why is he letting Harvey do this,
dialog: Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I don't know. He went down to the
dialog: press conference-
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: And just stood by?!
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps both Bruce and Mr. Dent
dialog: believe that Batman stands for
dialog: something more important than a
dialog: terrorist's whims, Miss Dawes, even
dialog: if everyone hates him for it.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: That's the sacrifice he's making- to
dialog: not be a hero. To be something more.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Well, you're right about one thing-
dialog: letting Harvey take the fall is not
dialog: heroic.
text: Rachel holds out an ENVELOPE.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONT'D)
dialog: You know Bruce best, Alfred... give
dialog: it to him when the time is right.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How will I know?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: It's not sealed.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 78.
text: Alfred takes the envelope. Rachel gives him a kiss.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Goodbye, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Goodbye, Rachel.
scene_heading: 157 INT. CELL, MCU -- EVENING 157
text: A Detective unlocks the cell and lets Rachel inside.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I'm sorry, I didn't have time to
dialog: talk this through with you.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Don't offer yourself as bait, Harvey.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: They're transferring me to central
dialog: holding. This is the Joker's chance,
dialog: and when he attacks, Batman will
dialog: take him down.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: No. This is too dangerous-
text: The Detective knocks. Dent rises.
scene_heading: 158 EXT. COURTYARD MCU -- EVENING 158
text: Detectives stare at Dent as he is led, shackled, to the
text: waiting CONVOY. Stephens begins CLAPPING- a handful join
text: in, but most remain silent. Rachel follows him to the back
dialog: of an armored vehicle.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: He's using you as bait- but he doesn't
dialog: know if he can get the Joker- he's
dialog: failed so far.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: How do you know what he's thinking?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I just do, okay? Harvey, this isn't
dialog: just about you, what about all the
dialog: people counting on you to turn this
dialog: city around? Tell everyone the truth-
text: Dent kisses her. Pulls out his LUCKY COIN-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 79.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Heads I go through with it.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: This is your life... you don't leave
dialog: something like this to chance...
text: Dent tosses it at her- Rachel catches it. Looks. Heads.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (sincere)
dialog: I'm not.
text: She turns it over: IT IS DOUBLE-HEADED. She looks up- the
text: DOORS CLOSE on his smile. She shakes her head. Torn.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: You make your own luck.
dialog: As SWATS file into the back of the support vehicles-
speaker_heading: ACTING COMISSIONER
dialog: We get this guy to County and he's
dialog: their problem. The streets along
dialog: your route will be cleared. The
dialog: convoy stops FOR NO REASON...
scene_heading: 159 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 159
text: A Swat with a shotgun climbs into the cab. Pulls on his
text: mask. Looks over at the DRIVER, who's already wearing his.
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: Hope you've got some moves.
scene_heading: 160 EXT. TENTH AVENUE, DOWNTOWN -- CONTINUOUS 160
text: The convoy ROCKETS past a roadblock.
scene_heading: 161 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 161
text: The Swats are staring at Dent, fascinated. He smiles.
scene_heading: 162 EXT. INTERSECTION -- CONTINUOUS 162
text: An Officer holding up traffic. A TRUCK pulls up.
speaker_heading: OFFICER
dialog: You wait like everybody else, pal.
text: A SHOTGUN BLAST sends the Officer flying. A second blast
text: illuminates the shooter's face: the Joker.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 80.
scene_heading: 163 INT. LEAD PATROL CAR, CONVOY -- CONTINUOUS 163
text: The SWAT behind the wheel of the lead black-and-white slows
text: as he sees something burning in the intersection ahead.
scene_heading: 164 EXT. AVENUE -- CONTINUOUS 164
text: Overhead, a police HELICOPTER checks the route, hovering
text: above a burning FIRE TRUCK, BLOCKING the road.
scene_heading: 165 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 165
dialog: The Driver is all business. The radio CRACKLES.
speaker_heading: RADIO
dialog: All units, be advised. All units
dialog: will exit down Cheviot west and
dialog: proceed north on lower 5th avenue.
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: Lower 5th? We'll be like ducks in a
dialog: barrel down there.
scene_heading: 166 EXT. SURFACE STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 166
text: The convoy disappears down the exit ramp.
scene_heading: 167 EXT. LOWER FIFTH AVENUE -- NIGHT 167
text: The convoy rolls through the subterranean streets. A GARBAGE
text: TRUCK pulls up behind and casually SWIPES the rear vehicles
dialog: of the convoy off the road...
scene_heading: 168 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 168
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: Get us out of here!
dialog: The Driver NAILS the gas-
scene_heading: 169 EXT. LOWER FIFTH -- CONTINUOUS 169
text: The Garbage Truck pushes hard on the armored car, ramming
text: its rear bumper, FORCING it forward.
scene_heading: 170 INT. ARMORED CAR -- NIGHT 170
text: The Driver watches the Truck fill his rear view. Shotgun
dialog: Swat picks up the radio.
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: We've got company back here-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 81.
scene_heading: 171 EXT. LOWER FIFTH AVENUE -- NIGHT 171
text: A SECOND TRUCK SMASHES into the SWAT van at the head of the
text: convoy, SMASHING it through the concrete barriers and INTO
dialog: THE RIVER. The truck is branded "LAUGHTER" but an "S" has
dialog: been sprayed at the front to make "SLAUGHTER" with "HA, HA,
dialog: HA" all over the side...
dialog: The Joker's Truck DODGES between the support columns and
text: into the oncoming lane- pulls alongside the armored car.
text: The Driver looks over. The cargo door on the truck slides
text: open. Inside, the Joker, holding a machine gun.
text: The armored car LOCKS up its brakes, but the garbage truck
text: pushes it forward as the Joker fires- BULLETS slamming into
dialog: The side of the vehicle-
scene_heading: 172 INT. REAR CABIN, ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 172
text: Dent is calm as the SWATS FLINCH from the bullet indentations-
scene_heading: 173 INT. UP FRONT, ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 173
text: Shotgun SWAT STARES at the Joker.
scene_heading: 174 INT. REAR TRAILER OF TRUCK -- NIGHT 174
text: The Joker drops his machine gun and picks up an RPG. He
dialog: stops- SEES something up ahead, racing towards the second
text: truck- the BATMOBILE. The Joker stares, fascinated, as-
scene_heading: 175 EXT. LOWER FIFTH -- CONTINUOUS 175
text: -THE BATMOBILE PLOWS STRAIGHT INTO THE SECOND TRUCK- the low-
text: profile car sending the truck UP INTO THE CONCRETE CEILING-
text: the Batmobile carries on through, as the TRUCK DISINTEGRATES.
scene_heading: 176 INT. TRUCK -- NIGHT 176
text: The Joker looks back to the batmobile, amused.
speaker_heading: JOKER'S THUG
dialog: Is that him-?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Anyone could be driving that thing-
dialog: stay on Dent.
text: The Joker lines up his RPG and prepares to fire-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 82.
scene_heading: 177 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 177
text: Shotgun SWAT's eyes go wide at the Joker's weapon- the Driver
dialog: JAMS the brakes-
scene_heading: 178 EXT. LOWER FIFTH -- CONTINUOUS 178
dialog: The Armored Car CRASHES BACK against the Garbage Truck,
dialog: BRAKING, SCRAPING, SLOWING just enough- the RPG SLAMS into
text: the SQUAD CAR in front of them and EXPLODES- the armored car
text: BURSTS through the fireball and continues.
scene_heading: 179 EXT. LOWER FIFTH -- CONTINUOUS 179
text: The Batmobile SPINS around to rejoin the pursuit.
scene_heading: 180 INT. JOKER'S TRUCK -- NIGHT 180
dialog: The Joker turns his men to RELOAD his RPG
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Do me up-
text: Turns back- levels his RPG out the window. Aims.
scene_heading: 181 INT. BATMOBILE -- NIGHT 181
text: Batman watches as the Joker prepares to fire. Several rows
text: of cars separate them. He toggles the afterburner.
scene_heading: 182 INT. PASSENGER CAR -- NIGHT 182
text: Two small children in the back of the car watch as the
text: Batmobile ROCKETS overhead.
scene_heading: 183 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- NIGHT 183
dialog: The Joker steadies the RPG and FIRES- the Batmobile CRASHES
text: down into the open space between the two vehicles- taking
dialog: the hit from the RPG which EXPLODES-
text: The rear of the Batmobile EXPLODES- SPINNING the FLAMING car-
scene_heading: 184 INT. ARMORED CAR -- NIGHT 184
text: SWATS react to the EXPLOSION. Dent is calm.
scene_heading: 185 INT. CAB OF JOKER'S TRUCK -- CONTINUOUS 185
dialog: The Driver takes a DEBRIS HIT to the head-
scene_heading: 186 INT. TRUCK -- CONTINUOUS 186
text: The Joker CACKLES with delight as he is THROWN AROUND the
dialog: rear of the trailer-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 83.
scene_heading: 187 INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 187
dialog: Batman WRESTLES the pod controls, SPINNING on the GYRO-
scene_heading: 188 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 188
text: The Batmobile flips over to come to rest in a smoking heap-
text: the front end intact, rear wheels scattered across the
text: roadway. A small crowd gathers.
scene_heading: 189 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 189
text: The Joker JUMPS down from the truck, still giggling like a
dialog: kid- looks back at the Batmobile's destruction-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Whoever he was... he ain't now.
text: The Joker YANKS his dead driver out of the cab, JUMPS over
text: him to take the wheel and pull back onto the roadway.
scene_heading: 190 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 190
text: The armored car pulls ahead, the Joker's truck in hot pursuit.
scene_heading: 191 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 191
text: Shotgun SWAT glances in the rear view mirror, slaps the dash-
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: Let's get topside- we need that air
dialog: support!
scene_heading: 192 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 192
text: The armored car PULLS onto a RAMP, heading up. The Joker's
dialog: Truck follows.
scene_heading: 193 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 193
text: People stare at the smoking wreck, inching closer...
scene_heading: 194 INT. BATMOBILE -- CONTINUOUS 194
text: Batman adjusts his position. Hits a button-
speaker_heading: BATMOBILE VOICE
dialog: Damage catastrophic. Initiate eject
dialog: and self-destruct.
text: Arm guards GRAB Batman's forearms as EXPLOSIVE BOLTS FIRE
dialog: all around the pod...
speaker_heading: BATMOBILE VOICE (CONT'D)
dialog: Goodbye.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 84.
scene_heading: 195 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- CONTINUOUS 195
text: The crowd JUMPS- PANELS of the front of the car BLOW OUT-
text: The crowd stares, OPEN-MOUTHED, as Batman EMERGES, HOISTED
text: UP AND OUT of the flaming car by the FRONT POD- LEVERING
dialog: OVER the FRONT WHEEL... the pod PUSHES the OTHER WHEEL IN
dialog: FRONT to form a type of MOTORCYCLE- The BAT-POD SHOOTS
text: FORWARD, bursting free as the Batmobile DETONATES, DYING in
text: a MASSIVE FIREBALL... Batman's cape SUCKS TOGETHER, forming
text: a TIGHT PACK on his shoulders, clear of the CHURNING REAR
dialog: TIRE of the bat-pod...
scene_heading: 196 EXT. PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 196
text: The armored car races down the street- the CHOPPER dips low.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: We're back on point- and ready to
dialog: give some of their own medicine-
scene_heading: 197 INT. POLICE CHOPPER -- CONTINUOUS 197
text: Cop pulls out an ASSAULT RIFLE. COCKS it-
scene_heading: 198 INT. CAB OF JOKER'S TRUCK -- CONTINUOUS 198
text: The Joker FIGHTS with the truck's gearbox, turns to his Thug-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Tee 'em up.
dialog: The Thug GRABS his radio.
scene_heading: 199 EXT. FIRE ESCAPE -- CONTINUOUS 199
text: A Joker Thug in clown mask loads up the cable gun seen in
dialog: the bank heist.
scene_heading: 200 EXT. SECOND FIRE ESCAPE -- CONTINUOUS 200
dialog: Another thug loads his own cable gun...
scene_heading: 201 INT. PASSENGER CAR, LOWER LEVEL STREET -- NIGHT 201
text: A motorist stares through his rear-view mirror, transfixed,
text: as the bat-pod TEARS past. He YELPS as the bat-pod SMASHES
dialog: the wing mirror from his car.
scene_heading: 202 EXT. LOWER LEVEL STREET -- NIGHT 202
text: Batman accelerates, oblivious to the STACCATO of CLEAVED
text: wing mirrors as the bat-pod RAZORS through traffic- CROSSES
text: a BUSY INTERSECTION- The bat-pod CUTS off the crowded lower
text: level street, ROARING over into the PARKING LANES-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 85.
text: Batman squeezes his triggers- BLASTING at PARKED CARS, BLOWING
dialog: them out of the way, literally CANNONING A PATH for the pod...
scene_heading: 203 EXT. TRAIN STATION -- CONTINUOUS 203
text: The Bat-Pod CANNONS through the glass doors and RACES through
text: the station/mall- COMMUTERS screaming and diving out of the
dialog: way-
text: The Bat-Pod races up the stairs and onto the upper street-
scene_heading: 204 EXT. PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 204
text: The Joker's Thugs FIRE THE CABLES ACROSS THE STREET AT SEVENTH
text: FLOOR LEVEL... they pull TAUT as the Chopper approaches,
text: unawares... the Chopper CATCHES on the cables, GOING DOWN in
text: a FIERY BALL that BARRELS along the street towards the armored
dialog: car...
scene_heading: 205 INT. ARMORED CAR -- CONTINUOUS 205
text: The Driver steers around the flaming wreckage as the Shotgun
speaker_heading: SWAT SHUTS HIS EYES-
scene_heading: 206 EXT. NARROW ALLEY -- CONTINUOUS 206
text: The Bat-pod TEARS down a narrow alley blocked with DUMPSTERS-
dialog: CANNONS the dumpsters to make a path-
scene_heading: 207 INT. CAB OF JOKER'S TRUCK -- NIGHT 207
text: The Joker hands the wheel to his man- takes a submachine gun-
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: Boss?
text: The Joker looks ahead to see the Bat-pod emerge from the
text: alley in a cloud of fire, SKIDDING SIDEWAYS IMPOSSIBLY- it
speaker_heading: RACES TOWARDS THEM-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Guess it was him.
scene_heading: 208 EXT. PARKSIDE -- NIGHT 208
text: The Bat-pod RACES straight at the Joker's truck- FIRES A
text: HARPOON at the Joker's truck- it IMPACTS low, below the bumper-
scene_heading: 209 INT. TRUCK -- CONTINUOUS 209
text: The Joker's Thug DUCKS, then comes back up, beaming.
speaker_heading: JOKER'S THUG
dialog: He missed!
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 86.
scene_heading: 210 EXT. PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 210
text: Batman SWERVES past the Joker's truck, SLALOMS, wrapping the
text: CABLES around a LAMP POST, SPINNING to a halt to watch...
scene_heading: 211 EXT. PARKSIDE -- CONTINUOUS 211
dialog: The cable goes TAUT, RIPPING one post from its foundation-
text: the TRUCK'S FRONT WHEELS CATCH, FLIPPING IT END OVER END...
text: The Joker crawls from the wreckage. He jumps over the median
text: and starts waving his pistol at oncoming traffic. Batman
text: GUNS the bat-pod and rides it up and over the median.
scene_heading: 212 INT. ARMORED CAR -- NIGHT 212
text: The Driver slows the car, pulls to the side.
speaker_heading: SHOTGUN SWAT
dialog: What the hell are you doing?
scene_heading: 213 EXT. PARKSIDE -- NIGHT 213
text: The Joker walks towards the Bat-pod, which SPEEDS towards
text: him. He is FIRING his gun RANDOMLY at the oncoming traffic.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Hit me. Come on. Hit me.
text: Batman watches as the Joker holds out his arms. Waiting for
text: impact. There is no room to go around him.
text: Batman LOCKS UP THE BRAKES.
text: The Joker watches as Batman DUMPS the bike, rather than
text: Smashing into him. Batman SLAMS into the wall.
text: The Joker's thug reach Batman first. He is unconscious.
text: The first Thug pulls at the mask. An ELECTRIC SHOCK from
text: the batsuit THROWS him back. The Joker LAUGHS. Flicks his
dialog: switchblade. Crouches-
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Drop it.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Just give me a second.
text: The gun is COCKED. The Joker drops the knife. Sits. Looks
text: back. Behind them is the armored car. The man standing
text: over him is the Driver. He pulls off his helmet.
text: It's JIM GORDON. Back from the dead.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 87.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We got you, you son of a bitch.
scene_heading: 214 INT. ARMORED CAR -- MOMENTS LATER 214
text: Dent looks up as the door swings open to reveal Gordon.
speaker_heading: Dent GRINS.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Lieutenant, you do like to play it
dialog: pretty close to the chest...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We got him, Harvey.
text: Dent nods. Respect in his eyes. They shake hands.
scene_heading: 215 EXT. PARKSIDE -- NIGHT 215
text: A small army of cops have sealed off the roadway. Gordon
text: pulls away in the squad car containing the Joker.
text: REPORTERS clamor for an interview with Dent, who is being
text: helped out of the van by the SWATS. Ramirez pushes through
dialog: the pack, shoving reporters aside.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: Let him be! He's been through enough-
text: Dent follows Ramirez to a squad car- Wuertz is in the driver's
text: seat. Dent smiles at Ramirez as she opens the rear door.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Thanks, detective- I've got a date
dialog: with a pretty upset fiance.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: I figured, counselor.
text: Ramirez shuts the door on Dent. Signals Wuertz to pull out.
scene_heading: 216 INT. HOLDING, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 216
text: The Joker sits in a holding cage. His makeup has run, his
text: clothes a mess- but his calm lends him an odd dignity. COPS
text: SMASH their night sticks against the bars near the Joker's
dialog: head. The Joker does not flinch.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Stand away! All of you. I don't
dialog: want anything for his mob lawyer to
dialog: use, understand? Handle this guy
dialog: like he's made of glass.
text: The Mayor walks in. Shakes Gordon's hand.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 88.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Back from the dead.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I couldn't chance my family's safety.
text: The Mayor looks over at the Joker in his cage.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: What do we got?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Nothing. No matches on prints, DNA,
dialog: dental. Clothing is custom, no
dialog: labels. Nothing in his pockets but
dialog: knives and lint. No name, no other
dialog: alias... nothing.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Go home, Gordon. The clown'll keep
dialog: till morning. Get some rest- you're
dialog: going to need it. Tomorrow, you
dialog: take the big job.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: You don't have any say in the matter.
dialog: (louder, for all)
dialog: Commissioner Gordon.
text: The cops in M.C.U. start CHEERING.
scene_heading: 217 EXT. GORDON HOME -- NIGHT 217
text: Gordon rings the bell. Barbara answers it, dressed in black.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Couldn't tell you. I couldn't risk-
text: She SLAPS Gordon. He grabs her, holds her tight as she sobs.
scene_heading: 218 INT. HOLDING, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 218
text: The Joker's men are processed. In the harsh light, the men
dialog: look a little ridiculous in their clown make-up. DETECTIVE
speaker_heading: MURPHY turns to Stephens.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MURPHY
dialog: Look at these ugly bastards.
text: One of the men, walks over, clutching at his belly.
speaker_heading: FAT THUG
dialog: I don't feel good.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 89.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MURPHY
dialog: You're a cop killer. You're lucky
dialog: to be feeling anything below the
dialog: neck.
text: Alone in his cage, the Joker smiles at this.
scene_heading: 219 INT. KIDS' BEDROOM, GORDON HOME -- NIGHT 219
text: Gordon crouches by his son's beside. He reaches out to touch
text: James Jr's cheek. James's eyes open. Staring at his dad as
dialog: if still dreaming.
speaker_heading: JAMES
dialog: (whispers)
dialog: Did Batman save you, dad?
text: Gordon looks at his son. A little pride seeps in.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Actually, this time I saved him.
dialog: Gordon's phone rings-
scene_heading: 220 INT. MAJOR CRIMES UNIT, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 220
text: Gordon PUSHES through the swarm of detectives crowded into
text: the observation room. The Joker can be seen through the
text: glass, as well as on a large MONITOR. Sitting there. Calm.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Has he said anything, yet?
text: Ramirez shakes her head. Gordon PUSHES through a door...
scene_heading: 221 INT. INTERROGATION, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 221
text: The Joker, in near darkness. Gordon walks in. Sits.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Evening, Commissioner.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Harvey Dent never made it home.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Of course not.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What have you done with him?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: Me? I was right here.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 90.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Who did you leave him with? Your
dialog: people? Assuming, of course, that
dialog: they are your people not Maroni's...
dialog: (off look)
dialog: Does it depress you, Lieutenant, to
dialog: know how alone you are?
text: Gordon can't help glancing at the mounted CAMERA.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Does it make you feel responsible
dialog: for Harvey Dent's current predicament?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Where is he?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: What time is it?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What difference does that make?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Depending on the time, he might be
dialog: in one spot.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Or several.
text: Gordon stands. Moves to the Joker. Undoes his handcuffs.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: If we're going to play games, I'm
dialog: going to need a cup of coffee.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: The good cop, bad cop routine?
text: Gordon pauses, hand on the doorknob.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Not exactly.
text: Gordon steps out. The overhead lights COME ON. BATMAN IS
text: BEHIND HIM. The Joker BLINKS in the HARSH WHITE LIGHT.
dialog: WHAM! The Joker's face HITS the table- comes up for air-
text: CRACK! CRACK! To the head. Batman is in front of him.
text: The Joker stares, fascinated. Bleeding.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Never start with the head... victim
dialog: gets fuzzy. Can't feel the next-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 91.
text: CRACK! Batman's fist SMACKS down on the Joker's fingers.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: (calm)
dialog: See?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You wanted me. Here I am.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I wanted to see what you'd do. And
dialog: you didn't disappoint...
dialog: (laughs)
dialog: You let five people die. Then you
dialog: let Dent take your place. Even to a
dialog: guy like me... that's cold-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Where's Dent?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Those mob fools want you gone so
dialog: they can get back to the way things
dialog: were. But I know the truth- there's
dialog: no going back. You've changed things.
dialog: Forever.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Then why do you want to kill me?
text: The Joker starts LAUGHING. After a moment he's laughing so
dialog: hard it sounds like SOBBING.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Kill you? I don't want to kill you.
dialog: What would I do without you? Go
dialog: back to ripping off Mob dealers? No
dialog: you...
dialog: (points)
dialog: You. Complete. Me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You're garbage who kills for money.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Don't talk like one of them- you're
dialog: not, even if you'd like to be. To
dialog: them you're a freak like me... they
dialog: just need you right now.
text: He regards Batman with something approaching pity.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: But as soon as they don't, they'll
dialog: cast you out like a leper.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 92.
text: The Joker looks into Batman's eyes. Searching.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Their morals, their code... it's a
dialog: bad joke. Dropped at the first sign
dialog: of trouble. They're only as good as
dialog: the world allows them to be. You'll
dialog: see- I'll show you... when the chips
dialog: are down, these civilized people...
dialog: they'll eat each other.
dialog: (grins)
dialog: See, I'm not a monster... I'm just
dialog: ahead of the curve.
text: Batman GRABS the Joker and pulls him upright.
scene_heading: 222 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 222
text: One of the Detectives moves for the door. Gordon stops him.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He's in control.
scene_heading: 223 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 223
dialog: Batman HOISTS the Joker up by the neck.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Where's Dent?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: You have these rules. And you think
dialog: they'll save you.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I have one rule.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Then that's the one you'll have to
dialog: break. To know the truth.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Which is?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: The only sensible way to live in
dialog: this world is without rules. Tonight
dialog: you're going to break your one rule...
dialog: Batman leans in to the Joker.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm considering it.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 93.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: There are just minutes left- so,
dialog: you'll have to play my little game
dialog: if you want to save...
dialog: (with relish)
dialog: ...one of them.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Them?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: For a while I thought you really
dialog: were Dent, the way you threw yourself
dialog: after her-
dialog: Batman DROPS the Joker- RIPS up a bolted-down chair-
scene_heading: 224 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 224
dialog: Gordon MOVES for the door-
scene_heading: 225 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU -- CONTINUOUS 225
dialog: Batman JAMS the chair under the doorknob- PICKS up the Joker
text: and HURLS him into the two-way glass. The glass SPIDERS.
scene_heading: 226 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 226
text: The Joker, bleeding from nose and mouth, LAUGHS at Batman.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Look at you go... does Harvey know
dialog: about you and his-?
text: The Joker SMASHES into the wall- SLIDES to the floor. Batman
dialog: stands over him, a man possessed-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: WHERE ARE THEY?!
dialog: He GRABS the Joker, holding him close-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Killing is making a choice...
text: Batman PUNCHES the Joker across the face. HARD.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: WHERE ARE THEY?!
text: The Joker FEEDS off Batman's anger. Loving it.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: ...you choose one life over the other.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 94.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Your friend, the district attorney.
dialog: Or his blushing bride-to-be.
dialog: Batman PUNCHES the Joker again. The Joker LAUGHS.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: You have nothing. Nothing to threaten
dialog: me with. Nothing to do with all
dialog: your strength...
dialog: (spits a tooth)
dialog: But don't worry, I'm going to tell
dialog: you where they are. Both of them,
dialog: and that's the point- you'll have to
dialog: choose.
text: The Batman stares at the Joker...
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: He's at 250 52nd Boulevard. And
dialog: she's on avenue X at Cicero.
dialog: Batman DROPS him.
scene_heading: 227 INT. OBSERVATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 227
dialog: Batman RACES past Gordon.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Which one are you-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Dent knew the risks.
text: Gordon looks back- the Joker is bloody, but grinning.
scene_heading: 228 EXT. MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 228
text: Several cops see Batman climb onto the bat-pod and TEAR off.
scene_heading: 229 EXT. STREETS, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 229
text: Batman SWERVES into oncoming traffic, CHAOS in his wake.
scene_heading: 230 EXT. GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 230
dialog: Gordon and his men SCRAMBLE into their cars...
scene_heading: 231 INT. BASEMENT APARTMENT -- NIGHT 231
dialog: Black.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Can anyone hear me?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 95.
text: Harvey Dent opens his eyes. He's bound to a chair in a dingy,
dialog: unfurnished basement apartment.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Rachel? Rachel is that you?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (sobbing)
dialog: Harvey. You're OK. I thought...
text: Her voice is coming from a speakerphone on the floor.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It's OK, Rachel. Everything's going
dialog: to be just fine.
text: He looks around. Behind him, metal BARRELS, hooked up to a
dialog: car battery, with a TIMER counting down: five minutes.
scene_heading: 232 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 232
text: The Joker sits, smiling, content. Stephens guards the door.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I want my phone call.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: That's nice.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: How many of your friends have I
dialog: killed?
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: I'm a twenty year man. I can tell
dialog: the difference between punks who
dialog: need a little lesson in manners, and
dialog: the freaks like you who would just
dialog: enjoy it.
dialog: (quiet)
dialog: And you killed six of my friends.
scene_heading: 233 INT. HOLDING AREA, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 233
text: The Fat Thug shuffles to the bars, where a COP stands guard.
speaker_heading: FAT THUG
dialog: (agony)
dialog: Please. My insides hurt.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Step away from the bars.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 96.
speaker_heading: FAT THUG
dialog: The boss said he would make the voices
dialog: go away. He said he would go inside
dialog: and replace them with bright lights.
dialog: Like Christmas.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: That's great. Please step-
text: The Fat Thug COLLAPSES. The Cop grabs his radio.
scene_heading: 234 INT. WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT 234
text: Rachel is bound to a chair. Behind her are barrels identical
dialog: to the ones behind Dent.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Can you move your chair?
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: No. Harvey, we don't have much time-
dialog: The timer connected to the bomb reads 2.47... 2.46...
scene_heading: 235 INT. BASEMENT APARTMENT -- NIGHT 235
text: Dent DRAGS his chair, inching closer to the barrels.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Look for something to free yourself.
text: The chair JAMS against a ridge in the floor. Dent STRAINS
dialog: to reach the timer. Inches shy.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: They said only one of us was going
dialog: to make it. That they'd let our...
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Our friends choose...
dialog: Dent strains... THE CHAIR, AND DENT, TOPPLE OVER- KNOCKING
speaker_heading: OVER A BARREL.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Harvey? What's happening?
text: Dent, one side of his face pressed against the bare floor,
text: watches the open barrel SPEW DIESEL FUEL around him-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Nothing. I'm trying to...
text: Dent contorts his head to keep from swallowing any.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 97.
scene_heading: 236 EXT. STREETS, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 236
text: The bat-pod SKIDS SIDEWAYS, WHEELS FLIPPING as the gyro keeps
text: Batman upright on the tumbling bike- it comes to rest- guns
text: lined up with a fire exit- BLOWS the door off its hinges-
dialog: JUMPS off the bike-
scene_heading: 237 EXT. 52ND STREET, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 237
text: Gridlock. Gordon SWERVES onto the sidewalk. People SCATTER.
scene_heading: 238 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 238
text: The Joker sits like a kid kept after class. He smiles.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: You know why I use a knife, Detective?
dialog: Guns are too quick. You don't get
dialog: to savor all the little emotions.
dialog: See, in their last moments, people
dialog: show you who they really are...
text: Stephens tries hard to ignore him. It isn't working.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: So, in a way, I knew your friends
dialog: better than you ever did.
dialog: (smiles)
dialog: Would you like to know which of them
dialog: were really cowards?
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: (rolls up sleeves)
dialog: I know you're going to enjoy this.
dialog: But I'm going to enjoy it more.
dialog: Stephens PUNCHES the Joker in the gut.
scene_heading: 239 INT. BASEMENT APARTMENT -- NIGHT 239
text: Dent is half submerged in diesel fuel.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey, in case... I want you to
dialog: know something...
dialog: Dent CHOKES, his emotions overwhelming him.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Don't think like that, Rachel.
dialog: They're coming for you.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I know, but I don't want them to...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 98.
scene_heading: 240 INT. WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT 240
text: Rachel looks at the timer. Ten seconds left.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: I don't want to live without you.
dialog: Because I do have an answer, and my
dialog: answer is yes...
scene_heading: 241 INT. HOLDING AREA, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 241
text: A MEDIC CUTS away the Fat Thug's shirt- his belly has large
dialog: INCISION, which has been closed with crude looking STITCHES-
speaker_heading: MEDIC
dialog: He's got some kind of... contusion...
text: A RECTANGULAR SHAPE is visible under the skin above his navel.
scene_heading: 242 INT. DETECTIVE'S ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 242
text: Stephens shuffles out into the room, a piece of BROKEN GLASS
text: held to his THROAT by the Joker. Cops draw their weapons.
speaker_heading: STEPHENS
dialog: This is my own damn fault. Just
dialog: shoot him.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MURPHY
dialog: What do you want?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I want my phone call.
text: The Detectives look at each other. One of them pulls out
text: his cell phone. TOSSES it to the Joker, who begins to dial.
scene_heading: 243 INT. HOLDING AREA, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 243
text: The Medic gingerly PRESSES the rectangle. It illuminates, a
text: soft blue light visible through the skin.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Is that a... phone?
scene_heading: 244 INT. DETECTIVE'S ROOM, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 244
text: The Joker presses SEND. At the end of the room, the door to
speaker_heading: the holding area EXPLODES-
scene_heading: 245 INT. HALLWAY, TENEMENT -- NIGHT 245
text: Batman SPRINTS down the hall- stops at a door- KICKS it-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 99.
scene_heading: 246 EXT. 52ND STREET, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 246
dialog: Cars PULL UP- Gordon gets out, carrying a fire ax-
scene_heading: 247 INT. HALLWAY, TENEMENT -- NIGHT 247
dialog: Batman KICKS- the door gives- Batman SMASHES it open-
scene_heading: 248 INT. BASEMENT APARTMENT -- NIGHT 248
text: Batman BURSTS through the door- Dent looks up in horror-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: NO! Not me... Why did you come for
dialog: me?!
dialog: Batman STARES at Dent. The Joker lied. The counter hits 5
dialog: Seconds. Batman DRAGS Dent out- Dent FIGHTS to stay-
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
speaker_heading: RACHEL!
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: Harvey? Harvey, it's okay...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: RACHEL!!!
scene_heading: 249 EXT. 52ND STREET, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 249
dialog: Gordon, axe in hand, RUNS towards the entrance-
scene_heading: 250 INT. WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT 250
text: Rachel can hear Dent. The counter runs out.
speaker_heading: RACHEL
dialog: (calm)
dialog: Somewhere-
scene_heading: AN EXPLOSION. ALL-CONSUMING.
scene_heading: 251 EXT. 52ND STREET, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 251
text: The BLAST HURLS Gordon backward onto the hood of his car-
scene_heading: THE ENTIRE WAREHOUSE IS AN ENORMOUS EXPLOSION-
scene_heading: 252 INT. BASEMENT APARTMENT -- NIGHT 252
text: Batman wraps his cape around Dent and hurls them both through
dialog: the door. Dent is SCREAMING-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 100.
scene_heading: 253 EXT. 52ND STREET, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 253
text: Gordon picks himself up. The warehouse is an inferno. He
text: heads for it anyway. Five of his men have to RESTRAIN HIM.
scene_heading: 254 EXT. ALLEYWAY, GOTHAM -- NIGHT 254
text: A SECOND EXPLOSION- Batman COVERS Dent as the FIREBALL HITS
dialog: them- IGNITING the diesel soaking Dent's left side- he starts
text: BURNING. And stops screaming. Batman ROLLS Dent on the wet
dialog: pavement... Dent SIZZLES. Silent.
scene_heading: 255 INT. SPECIAL HOLDING AREA, MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- NIGHT 255
text: The Joker walks to the bars of another cell. Grins.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Hello there.
text: In his cell. Terrified. Lau.
scene_heading: 256 EXT. AMBULANCE -- CONTINUOUS 256
text: Dent is wheeled into an ambulance, bandages held to his face.
text: His one visible eye STARES BLANKLY, oblivious to the panic-
scene_heading: 257 EXT. 52ND STREET -- CONTINUOUS 257
text: Gordon watches the fire. DEBRIS blows across the asphalt.
text: Gordon picks up two pieces: SINGED JOKER CARDS. In place of
text: the Joker's face is a PHOTO OF LAU. A POLICE SERGEANT
dialog: approaches.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Dent's alive, Jim. Just. But back
dialog: at M.C.U.... the Joker's gone...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: With Lau?
dialog: (the Cop nods)
dialog: The Joker planned to be caught. He
dialog: wanted me to lock him up in M.C.U..
scene_heading: 258 EXT. STREET, DOWNTOWN GOTHAM -- DAWN 258
text: A squad car BLAZES down the street. The Joker sticks his
text: head out the window like a dog, feeling the wind...
scene_heading: 259 INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAWN 259
text: Alfred sits at a table reading the letter from Rachel.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 101.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: Dear Bruce, I need to explain...
speaker_heading: 260 EXT. 52ND STREET -- DAWN 260
text: Water. Smoldering blackness. The FIRE CREWS extinguish the
text: last flames of the devastated building. A FIREMAN nudges
dialog: his COLLEAGUE, pointing out something in the devastation...
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: ...I need to be honest and clear.
dialog: I'm going to marry Harvey Dent...
scene_heading: 261 INT. INTENSIVE CARE UNIT -- DAWN 261
text: Glimpses of Dent's damaged face as SURGEONS surround him.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: I love him, I want to spend the rest
dialog: of my life with him...
speaker_heading: 262 EXT. 52ND STREET -- DAWN 262
text: The Firemen watch a statue-like figure amidst the charred
dialog: ruins. The Batman.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: When I told you that if Gotham no
dialog: longer needed Batman we could be
dialog: together, I meant it...
scene_heading: 263 INT. MCU, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- DAY 263
text: Gordon surveys the wreckage of MCU. The bodies.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: But I'm not sure the day will come...
speaker_heading: 264 EXT. 52ND STREET -- DAWN 264
text: Batman bends to the ground on one knee, his black glove spread
text: against the smoldering debris.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: ...when you no longer need Batman.
dialog: I hope it does, and if it does I
dialog: will be there...
text: He spots something. DENT'S TWO-HEADED COIN. Blackened,
text: SCARRED. Batman turns it over. The other side is PRISTINE.
scene_heading: 265 INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAWN 265
dialog: Alfred reads.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 102.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: ...but as your friend. I'm sorry to
dialog: let you down...
scene_heading: 266 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAWN 266
text: Dent, heavily bandaged, hooked up to various machines.
text: Batman stands at the foot of his bed. Watching.
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: If you lose your faith in me, please
dialog: keep your faith in people...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm sorry, Harvey.
text: Batman puts DENT'S DAMAGED COIN on the bedside table.
scene_heading: 267 INT. KITCHEN, WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 267
speaker_heading: RACHEL (V.O.)
dialog: Love, now and always, Rachel.
text: Alfred finishes the letter. Tears in his eyes, he folds it
text: back into its envelope. Places it on the breakfast tray.
scene_heading: 268 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAWN 268
text: Alfred moves through the silent space, stepping past the
text: cowl and gauntlets lying on the cold marble. He approaches
text: Wayne, half-undressed, slumped in a chair, watching Gotham.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I prepared a little breakfast.
text: Nothing. Alfred sets down the tray. The envelope is propped
dialog: against the silver teapot.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: Very well.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes, Master Wayne?
text: Wayne turns, a desperate look in his eye.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Did I bring this on us? On her? I
dialog: thought I would inspire good, not
dialog: madness-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 103.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You have inspired good. But you
dialog: spat in the face of Gotham's criminals-
dialog: didn't you think there might be
dialog: casualties? Things were always going
dialog: to have to get worse before they got
dialog: better.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: But Rachel, Alfred...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Rachel believed in what you stood
dialog: for. What we stand for.
text: Wayne looks up at Alfred. Alfred picks up the cowl.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: Gotham needs you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Gotham needs its hero. And I let
dialog: the Joker blow him half to hell-
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Which is why for now, they'll have
dialog: to make do with you.
text: Alfred hands him the cowl. Wayne looks at him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: She was going to wait for me. Dent
dialog: doesn't know. He can never know...
text: Alfred glances at the envelope. Takes it off the tray.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (CONT'D)
dialog: What's that?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It can wait.
text: Alfred puts the envelope in his pocket.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That bandit, in the forest in Burma...
dialog: Did you catch him?
dialog: (Alfred nods)
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (uneasy)
dialog: We burned the forest down.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 104.
scene_heading: 269 EXT. DOWNTOWN GOTHAM -- DAY 269
text: A national guard helicopter ROARS over Gotham General.
scene_heading: 270 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY 270
dialog: Dent. Bandaged. Sedated. Coming up for air. Sees something
text: on the table: his coin. He fumbles for it, marvelling at
text: its shiny face. Remembering.
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: RACHEL CATCHES THE COIN.
text: Dent turns the coin over. The other side is devastated. He
text: STARES at the scarred face. Starts ripping his bandages.
scene_heading: 271 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAY 271
text: Alfred comes up to Wayne. Points him to the TV.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You need to see this.
text: On screen: Engel, in his studio, addresses the camera.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: ...he's a credible source- an A and
dialog: M lawyer for a prestigious
dialog: consultancy. He says he's waited as
dialog: long as he can for the Batman to do
dialog: the right thing...
text: The shot cuts to REESE, nodding.
speaker_heading: ENGEL (CONT'D)
dialog: Now he's taking matters into his own
dialog: hands. We'll be live at five with
dialog: the true identity of the Batman,
dialog: stay with us...
scene_heading: 272 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- CONTINUOUS 272
text: Gordon ENTERS. Dent STARES to one side. He looks normal.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm sorry about Rachel.
dialog: (nothing)
dialog: The Doctor says you're in agonizing
dialog: pain but you won't accept medication.
dialog: That you're refusing skin grafts-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Remember the name you all had for me
dialog: when I was at Internal Affairs?
dialog: What was it, Gordon?
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 105.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Harvey, I can't-
speaker_heading: DENT
speaker_heading: SAY IT!
text: Dent's anger makes Gordon flinch. He looks away. Ashamed.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (small)
dialog: Two-face. Harvey two-face.
text: Dent turns to face Gordon- the left side of Dent's face is
text: DESTROYED- skin blackened and shriveled. Molars visible.
text: The eye a ball and socket. Dent manages a small smile with
dialog: the good side of his face.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Why should I hide who I am?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I... I know you tried to warn me.
dialog: I'm sorry. Wuertz picked you up-
dialog: was he working for them?
dialog: (nothing)
dialog: Do you know who picked up Rachel?
dialog: (nothing)
dialog: Harvey, I need to know which of my
dialog: men I can trust.
text: Dent looks at Gordon. Cold.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Why would you listen to me now?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm sorry, Harvey.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: No. No you're not. Not yet.
text: Gordon takes a last look at Dent. Then leaves.
scene_heading: 273 INT. CORRIDOR, HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 273
text: Gordon steps out. Someone is there. Maroni. On crutches.
text: Gordon stares at him. Cold. Maroni shifts, awkward.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: This craziness. This is too much.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You should have thought of that before
dialog: you let the clown out of the box.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 106.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: You want him, I can tell you where
dialog: he'll be this afternoon.
scene_heading: 274 EXT. ABANDONED DOCKS -- DAY 274
text: The Chechen gets out of his SUV. Looks at a RUSTED HULK.
text: The Chechen, bodyguards, and dogs, head up the gangplank.
scene_heading: 275 INT. RUSTED HULK -- CONTINUOUS 275
text: They pass into a huge hold. In the middle: A BILLION DOLLARS.
text: The pile is thirty feet high. Standing on top- the Joker.
text: At his feet, bound, is Lau. The Chechen laughs.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: Like I say- not so crazy as you look.
text: The Joker jumps from the top, slides down the pile.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I told you- I'm a man of my word.
dialog: (looks around)
dialog: Where's the Italian?
text: The Chechen shrugs. Pulls out a cigar. Lights it.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: More for us. What you do with all
dialog: your money, Mr. Joker?
text: The Joker GRABS a can of GASOLINE from his thug.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I'm a man of simple tastes. I like
dialog: gunpowder. Dynamite...
text: He is SPLASHING gasoline onto the money.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: ...gasoline...
text: The Chechen, FURIOUS, steps forwards. The Joker turns.
dialog: JABS his gun in the Chechen's face. The Chechen's bodyguards
dialog: REACT. The Joker's men DRAW on them.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: And you know what they have in common?
dialog: They're cheap.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: You said you were a man of your word.
dialog: The Joker PLUCKS the cigar from the Chechen's lips.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 107.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I am.
text: The Joker tosses the cigar at the pile.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm only burning my half.
dialog: The Chechen watches the money catch fire.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: All you care about is money. This
dialog: city deserves a better class of
dialog: criminal, and I'm going to give it
dialog: to them. This is my town now. Tell
dialog: your men they work for me.
text: The Joker crouches down to the Chechen's dogs. They GROWL.
speaker_heading: CHECHEN
dialog: They won't work for a freak.
text: The Joker takes out a knife. Tosses it to his man.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Cut him up and offer him to his little
dialog: Princes. Let's show him just how
dialog: loyal a hungry dog is.
dialog: The Joker's men GRAB the Chechen.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: It's not about money. It's about
dialog: sending a message...
text: The Joker watches the towering FLAMES. Lau screams.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Everything. Burns.
text: The Joker pulls out a phone...
scene_heading: 276 INT. TELEVISION STUDIO -- DAY 276
text: Reese has a confident air. Engel is taking calls.
speaker_heading: CALLER 1 (O.S.)
dialog: I wanna how much they're gonna pay
dialog: you to say who Batman really is.
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: That's simply not why I'm doing this.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Caller, you're on the air.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 108.
speaker_heading: CALLER 2 (O.S.)
dialog: Harvey Dent didn't want us to give
dialog: in to this maniac- you think you
dialog: know better than him?
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Guy's got a point- Dent didn't want
dialog: Batman to give himself up, is this
dialog: the right thing to do?
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: If we could talk to Dent now he might
dialog: feel differently-
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: And we wish him a speedy recovery.
dialog: God knows we need him, now. Let's
dialog: take another call-
speaker_heading: OLD LADY (O.S.)
dialog: Mr. Reese, what's more valuable: one
dialog: life, or a hundred?
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: I guess it would depend on the life.
speaker_heading: OLD LADY (O.S.)
dialog: OK. Let's say it's your life. Is
dialog: it worth more than the lives of
dialog: several hundred others?
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: Of course not.
speaker_heading: OLD LADY (O.S.)
dialog: I'm glad you feel that way. Because
dialog: I've put a bomb in one of the city's
dialog: hospitals. It's going off in sixty
dialog: minutes unless someone kills you.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Who is this?
speaker_heading: OLD LADY (O.S.)
dialog: Just a concerned citizen-
dialog: (drops pitch to the
speaker_heading: JOKER'S VOICE)
dialog: -and regular guy...
scene_heading: 277 INT. MAJOR CRIMES UNIT, GOTHAM CENTRAL -- CONTINUOUS 277
text: Gordon and his men are gearing up to take down the Joker. A
dialog: Detective turns up the TV in the bullpen-
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 109.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: I had a vision. Of a world without
dialog: Batman. The mob ground out a little
dialog: profit and the police tried to shut
dialog: them down, one block at a time...
dialog: and it was so... boring. I've had a
dialog: change of heart. I don't want Mr.
dialog: Reese spoiling everything, but why
dialog: should I have all the fun? Let's
dialog: give someone else a chance...
text: Reese looks around, twitching. Sweating.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
dialog: If Coleman Reese isn't dead in sixty
dialog: minutes, then I blow up a hospital.
dialog: Of course, you could always kill
dialog: yourself, Mr. Reese. But that would
dialog: be the noble thing to do. And you're
dialog: a lawyer.
text: The line rings off. Engel is speechless.
dialog: Gordon turns to the uniform COPS.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Call in every officer- tell them to
dialog: head to their nearest hospital and
dialog: start evac and search. Call the
dialog: transit authority, school board,
dialog: prisons- get every available bus
dialog: down to a hospital- the priority is
dialog: Gotham General- wheel everybody out
dialog: of that place right now- my hunch is
dialog: that's where the bomb is.
speaker_heading: DETECTIVE MURPHY
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's where Harvey Dent is.
text: The Uniforms SPRINT off. Gordon turns to his Detectives.
speaker_heading: UNIFORMED COP
dialog: Where are we going, sir?
dialog: On screen: Reese is a deer in the headlights.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: To get Reese.
scene_heading: 278 INT. WAYNE PENTHOUSE -- DAY 278
dialog: Wayne and Alfred move to the elevator.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 110.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I need you plugged in, checking
dialog: Gordon's men and their families.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Looking for?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Hospital admissions.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Will you be taking the batpod, sir?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: In the middle of the day? Not very
dialog: subtle, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The Lamborghini then.
dialog: (watches Wayne go)
dialog: Much more subtle.
scene_heading: 279 EXT. GOTHAM STREETS -- DAY 279
dialog: Wayne's Lamborghini TEARS through downtown.
scene_heading: 280 INT. HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 280
text: CHAOS. PATIENTS and STAFF running around. COPS and TRAFFIC
dialog: WARDENS try to manage the evacuation. The COPS stationed
dialog: outside Dent's room, look around, unsure-
speaker_heading: NURSE
dialog: Sir, are you going to help?!
text: Two Cops move to help wheel gurneys around the corner.
scene_heading: 281 INT. LOBBY, TELEVISION STUDIO -- DAY 281
dialog: Gordon and his men escort Reese out of the elevator- Engel
text: follows with a camera crew. As they approach the glass doors
text: Gordon looks out at an angry crowd.
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: Commissioner?! You really think
dialog: someone would try to-
dialog: Gordon SPOTS an OLD MAN raising a PISTOL- Gordon THROWS Reese
dialog: to the ground as SHOTS SHATTER the laminated glass of the
dialog: lobby. The Crowd SURGES in all directions-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Get the cars around back!
dialog: Gordon hauls Reese to the stairwell.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 111.
scene_heading: 282 INT. LAMBORGHINI -- CONTINUOUS 282
text: Wayne SLOWS past the chaos outside the television station.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I saw O'Brien and Richards...
scene_heading: 283 INT. BAT-BUNKER -- CONTINUOUS 283
dialog: Alfred types at the computer station.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Nothing on them. No immediate family
dialog: members admitted to a Gotham hospital.
scene_heading: 284 INT. STAIRWELL, TELEVISION STUDIO -- CONTINUOUS 284
text: Gordon pulls the shaken Reese down the stairs...
speaker_heading: REESE
dialog: (shaken)
dialog: They're trying to kill me.
dialog: ...and into a police VAN...
scene_heading: 285 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 285
text: Gordon throws Reese in the back. Smiles.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Well, maybe Batman will save you.
text: The van PEELS out. Heads onto the streets.
scene_heading: 286 EXT. HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 286
text: Cops load patients onto BUSES. A TV van pulls up, Engel and
dialog: his Cameraman jump out. One of Dent's guards, POLK, looks
text: into a SCHOOL BUS. Turns to the Cop loading it.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: Okay, don't put anyone else on.
dialog: (gets on radio)
dialog: Davis, I got space, bring him out.
dialog: (no answer)
dialog: Davis?
text: Polk heads back towards the hospital, against the flow.
scene_heading: 287 INT. LAMBORGHINI -- CONTINUOUS 287
text: Wayne trails the police van from a distance.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 112.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I saw Burns and Zachary... and a
dialog: patrolman I don't know.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Burns is clean... Zachary...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: There's at least one I don't know-
dialog: send the information to Gordon-
scene_heading: 288 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 288
text: Gordon's phone BEEPS. He looks at a text: WATCH OUT. COPS
scene_heading: WITH RELATIVES IN GOTHAM HOSPITALS- BURKE, RAMIREZ, TILL...
scene_heading: 289 INT. DENT'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- CONTINUOUS 289
text: Polk enters the room. No Davis. Just a REDHEADED NURSE,
text: back towards him, reading Dent's chart.
speaker_heading: POLK
dialog: Ma'am, we're going to have to move
dialog: him, now.
dialog: (nothing)
dialog: Ma'am?
text: The Redhead TURNS- it is the Joker, silenced pistol in hand.
dialog: He FIRES.
scene_heading: 290 EXT. GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 290
text: The Lamborghini zips around a car to get closer to the van.
scene_heading: 291 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 291
text: Gordon is reading his phone: ERIKSON, BERG. Gordon looks up
text: sharply. Considers the uniformed cop nervously fingering
dialog: his shotgun.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Berg, isn't it?
text: The young cop, BERG, looks up. Sweating.
speaker_heading: BERG
dialog: Commissioner?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You okay, son?
text: Berg nods. Looks at his watch.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 113.
scene_heading: 292 INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY 292
text: The Joker draws closer to Dent's bed. Dent STRAINS at the
text: leather cuffs binding him to the bed.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I don't want there to be any hard
dialog: feelings between us, Harvey.
text: The Joker loosens Dent's restraints.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: When you and Rachel were being
dialog: abducted I was sitting in Gordon's
dialog: cage. I didn't rig those charges-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Your men. Your plan.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Do I really look like a guy with a
dialog: plan, Harvey? I don't have a
dialog: plan...The mob has plans, the cops
dialog: have plans. You know what I am,
dialog: Harvey?
text: Dent's hand is TREMBLING.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: I'm a dog chasing cars... I wouldn't
dialog: know what to do with one if I caught
dialog: it. I just do things. I'm just the
dialog: wrench in the gears. I hate plans.
dialog: Yours, theirs, everyone's. Maroni
dialog: has plans. Gordon has plans.
dialog: Schemers trying to control their
dialog: worlds. I'm not a schemer, I show
dialog: the schemers how pathetic their
dialog: attempts to control things really
dialog: are. So when I say that you and
dialog: your girlfriend was nothing personal,
dialog: you know I'm telling the truth...
text: Hands him the pistol. Dent holds it to the Joker's head.
scene_heading: 293 EXT. INTERSECTION, GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 293
text: Wayne ROARS past a line of traffic to settle in a few cars
text: back from the police van, sitting at a red light.
scene_heading: 294 INT. LAMBORGHINI -- CONTINUOUS 294
text: Wayne studies the intersection- spots a PICKUP jostling for
dialog: position on the cross street.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 114.
scene_heading: 295 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 295
text: Gordon watches Berg, mentally tracing the trajectory of his
text: shotgun barrel as Berg fiddles with his gun. Gordon starts
text: trying to subtly unholster his own weapon.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm gonna need your weapon, son.
dialog: Berg looks at Gordon.
speaker_heading: BERG
dialog: What?
scene_heading: 296 INT. LAMBORGHINI -- CONTINUOUS 296
text: Wayne watches the driver of the pickup staring intently at
text: the police van. Lining it up.
scene_heading: 297 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 297
text: Reese looks from Berg to Gordon. Berg looks at Gordon,
text: trembling, the barrel of his gun inching lower in the car.
speaker_heading: BERG
dialog: Why? Because my wife's in hospital?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Yeah. That would be why.
scene_heading: 298 INT. DENT'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- CONTINUOUS 298
text: The Joker leans in, pressing his head to the gun's barrel.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: It's the schemers who put you where
dialog: you are. You were a schemer. You
dialog: had plans. Look where it got you.
dialog: I just did what I do best- I took
dialog: your plan, and I turned it on itself.
dialog: Look what I've done to this city
dialog: with a few drums of gas and a couple
dialog: of bullets. Nobody panics when the
dialog: expected people get killed. Nobody
dialog: panics when things go according to
dialog: plan, even if the plan is horrifying.
dialog: If I tell the press that tomorrow a
dialog: gangbanger will get shot, or a
dialog: truckload of soldiers will be blown
dialog: up, nobody panics. Because it's all
dialog: part of the plan. But when I say
dialog: that one little old mayor will die,
dialog: everybody loses their minds!
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 115.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Introduce a little anarchy, you upset
dialog: the established order and everything
dialog: becomes chaos. I'm an agent of chaos.
dialog: And you know the thing about chaos,
dialog: Harvey?
text: Dent looks into the Joker's eyes. Finding meaning.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: It's fair.
text: Dent looks down at the coin in his hands. Turns it over,
dialog: feels it's comforting weight. Shows the Joker the good side.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You live.
text: He turns the coin over. The flip side is deeply SCARRED.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: You die.
text: The Joker looks at the coin. Looks at Dent, admiringly.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Now you're talking.
text: Dent FLICKS the coin into the air. Catches it. Looks.
scene_heading: 299 EXT. INTERSECTION, GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 299
text: The light turns GREEN. The police van pulls into the
dialog: intersection- the pickup GUNS IT, RACING AT IT...
scene_heading: 300 INT. LAMBORGHINI -- CONTINUOUS 300
text: Wayne FLOORS it, YANKS the wheel to pull up onto the sidewalk-
scene_heading: 301 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 301
text: Berg licks his lips, nervous.
speaker_heading: BERG
dialog: Mr. Reese?
scene_heading: 302 EXT. INTERSECTION, GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 302
text: The pickup BARRELS at the van, FULL TILT- at the last second
dialog: Wayne's Lamborghini SLIPS alongside the van- the pickup
speaker_heading: SMASHES INTO THE LAMBORGHINI
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 116.
scene_heading: 303 INT. POLICE VAN -- CONTINUOUS 303
text: As the van JOLTS with the impact Gordon LEAPS forward, PUSHING
dialog: UP Berg's shotgun barrel, which FIRES into the roof- Gordon
text: SMASHES Berg on the head with his sidearm.
scene_heading: 304 EXT. INTERSECTION, GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 304
dialog: Gordon's men pull the pickup driver from his cab- Gordon
text: crouches down to the Lamborghini wreck to help pull Wayne
text: from the car. Gordon recognizes him as he pulls him free.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You okay, Mr. Wayne?
text: Wayne looks at him, woozy. Sits on the curb.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Call me Bruce. I think so.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That was a brave thing, you did.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Trying to catch the light?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You weren't protecting the van?
text: Wayne turns- sees the police van as if for the first time.
text: Reese steps down, dazed.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why? Who's in it?
text: Reese locks eyes with Wayne. Nods. Gordon sizes up Bruce
dialog: Wayne and his crushed sports car.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You don't watch a whole lot of news,
dialog: do you, Mr. Wayne?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (shrugs)
dialog: It can get a little intense. Think
dialog: I should go to hospital?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Not today, I wouldn't.
scene_heading: 305 INT. CORRIDOR, HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 305
text: The Joker walks calmly through the mostly deserted building.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 117.
text: As he walks he pulls a DETONATOR from his pocket. Strolling
dialog: along he PUSHES THE BUTTON... STAGGERED EXPLOSIONS BURST
text: INTO THE CORRIDOR BEHIND HIM LIKE DEMOLITION BLASTS... the
text: Joker just walks out the door...
scene_heading: 306 EXT. HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 306
text: The Joker STROLLS down the steps- WINDOWS BLOW OUT IN SERIES-
dialog: People DIVE for cover- Engel PILES into a school bus-
text: The Joker walks across the parking lot- THE BUILDING
speaker_heading: COLLAPSING BEHIND HIM...
scene_heading: 307 EXT. INTERSECTION, GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 307
dialog: Gordon hears the EXPLOSION.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Gotham general...
dialog: (grabs his phone)
dialog: Did you get Dent out?
speaker_heading: COP (O.S.)
dialog: I think so-
scene_heading: 308 EXT. HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 308
text: The Cop cowers as DEBRIS and SMOKE BLAST across the street-
scene_heading: 309 INT. SCHOOL BUS -- CONTINUOUS 309
text: The Joker gets onto the bus. Nods at his man at the wheel.
scene_heading: 310 EXT. HOSPITAL -- CONTINUOUS 310
text: All eyes are on the collapsed building. One school bus pulls
text: out from the line of other buses. Heads down the street.
scene_heading: 311 INT. BAR, GOTHAM HEIGHTS -- DAY 311
text: An empty neighborhood dive, the local DRUNK passed out at
text: the bar, BARTENDER, watching BREAKING NEWS on the TV.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: Sweet Jesus. D'you see this, Mike?
dialog: They blew up a hospital...
text: Detective Wuertz, at a booth looks up at the TV, bored.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER (CONT'D)
dialog: Shouldn't you be out there, you know,
dialog: doing something?
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: It's my day off.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 118.
dialog: The Bartender shuts the register.
speaker_heading: BARTENDER
dialog: I gotta take a leak, keep an eye on
dialog: things, will ya?
text: The Bartender steps out. The back door OPENS again.
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: What? You need me to shake it for-
text: He TRAILS off as someone sticks a gun in his face: Harvey
text: Dent. Standing in shadow. He sits.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Hello.
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: Dent, I thought you was...dead...
text: Dent leans into the light. The left side of his face is
text: HIDEOUSLY BURNED, cheek gone, blackened teeth and gums.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Half.
text: Dent picks up Wuertz's drink. Takes a SIP. Wuertz watches
dialog: the bare muscles RETRACT as Dent SWALLOWS.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Who picked up Rachel, Wuertz?
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: It must've been Maroni's men-
text: Dent SLAMS the glass back on the table- Wuertz FLINCHES.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You, of all people, are gonna protect
dialog: the other traitor in Gordon's unit?
speaker_heading: WUERTZ
dialog: I don't know- he'd never tell me.
dialog: (stares at Dent)
dialog: I swear to God, I didn't know what
dialog: they were gonna do to you-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Funny, I don't know what's going to
dialog: happen to you, either.
text: Dent pulls his coin from his pocket. FLIPS it. Wuertz
text: watches it SPIN. It lands on the table. Scarred side up.
text: The drunk at the bar STIRS at the GUNSHOT.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 119.
scene_heading: 312 EXT. GOTHAM GENERAL -- DAY 312
dialog: Gordon, manic, surveys the scene with a Cop-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You must know how many were inside-
dialog: you've got patient lists, roll calls-
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Sir! Sir. Take a look at what we're
dialog: dealing with. Cops, National Guard-
dialog: (gestures at buses)
dialog: We're showing 50 missing- but that
dialog: building was clear. These buses are
dialog: heading off to other hospitals- my
dialog: guess is we missed one.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Yeah? What's your guess about where
dialog: Harvey Dent is?
dialog: The cop says nothing.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Keep looking. Keep it to yourself.
scene_heading: 313 INT. FOX'S OFFICE WAYNE INDUSTRIES -- DAY 313
text: Fox is watching the news. His intercom buzzes.
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Mr. Fox? Security is showing a break-
dialog: in at the R and D department.
scene_heading: 314 INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- DAY 314
text: Fox watches two security men force the door. He enters alone.
scene_heading: 315 INT. LAB, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- DAY 315
text: Fox enters the dimly-lit room. At one end is an extraordinary
text: array of thousands of tiny monitors. Fox approaches,
dialog: fascinated, as they quietly display architectural patterns
text: individually and in concert. The images become a MAP.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Beautiful. Isn't it?
text: Fox nods, staring at the monitors as Batman approaches.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Beautiful. Unethical. Dangerous.
dialog: You've turned every phone in the
dialog: city into a microphone...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 120.
text: Lucius presses a key. The BABBLE of a MILLION CONVERSATIONS
text: at once fills the room. Every cell phone in the city.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And high frequency generator/receiver.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Like the phone I gave you in Hong
dialog: Kong. You took my sonar concept and
dialog: applied it to everybody's phone in
dialog: the City. With half the city feeding
dialog: you sonar you can image all of Gotham.
dialog: (turns to Batman)
dialog: This is wrong.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I've got to find this man, Lucius.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: But at what cost?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: The database is null-key encrypted.
dialog: It can only be accessed by one person.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: No one should have that kind of power.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That's why I gave it to you. Only
dialog: you can use it.
dialog: Lucius looks at Batman. Hard.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Spying on thirty million people wasn't
dialog: in my job description.
text: Batman points to a TV screen. Fox turns. ON SCREEN: the
text: Joker shakes his head above a graphic "LATEST THREAT"...
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: What does it take to make you people
dialog: want to join in..?
scene_heading: 316 EXT. SITUATION TENT AT GOTHAM GENERAL -- CONTINUOUS 316
text: Gordon watches a screen. Grave.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: You failed to kill the lawyer...
dialog: I've got to get you off the bench
dialog: and into the game. So, here it is...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 121.
scene_heading: 317 INT. BAR, DOWNTOWN -- CONTINUOUS 317
text: The bar, packed with business people watches the TV. SILENT.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Come nightfall, this city is mine,
dialog: and anyone left here plays by my
dialog: rules. If you don't want to be in
dialog: the game, get out now.
text: Bar patrons start moving... The Joker reaches for the camera-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: But the bridge-and-tunnel crowd are
dialog: in for a surprise.
text: CUT TO STATIC. The bar patrons look around, confused.
scene_heading: 318 INT. LAB, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- CONTINUOUS 318
text: Fox turns from the TV to look at Batman.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Trust me.
dialog: Fox stares at Batman.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: This is the audio sample.
text: He plugs a USB dongle into the console. A sample of the
text: Joker's voice from the call-in news program plays.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: If he talks within range of any phone
dialog: in the city, you'll be able to
dialog: triangulate his position.
dialog: Lucius toggles a menu. The city is an open book- People
text: working, eating, sleeping. Lucius shakes his head.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: When you've finished, type your name
dialog: to switch it off.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'll help you this one time...
text: Lucius sits at the console. Batman moves off-
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: But consider this my resignation.
text: Batman turns. Fox looks at him, serious.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 122.
speaker_heading: FOX (CONT'D)
dialog: As long as this machine is at Wayne
dialog: Industries, I won't be.
scene_heading: 319 EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS -- DUSK 319
dialog: Gothamites POUR out of the city, on foot and by car... the
text: BRIDGES and TUNNELS are deserted, but for BOMB SQUAD search
dialog: teams.
scene_heading: 320 INT. CITY HALL -- CONTINUOUS 320
dialog: Gordon briefs the Mayor.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: My officers are going over every
dialog: inch of the tunnels and bridges, but
dialog: with the Joker's threat they're not
dialog: and option.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: Land routes East?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Backed up for hours. Which leaves
dialog: the ferries with thirty thousand
dialog: waiting to board. Plus, corrections
dialog: are at capacity, so I want to use a
dialog: ferry to take some prisoners off the
dialog: island.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: The men you and Dent put away? Those
dialog: aren't people I'm worried about.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You should be- they're the people
dialog: you least want to be stuck with in
dialog: an emergency. Whatever the Joker's
dialog: planning, it's a good bet that
dialog: Harvey's prisoners might be involved.
dialog: I want 'em out of here.
scene_heading: 321 EXT. FERRY TERMINAL -- DUSK 321
text: At the ferry terminal, National Guardsman watch over the
text: THIRTY THOUSAND jostling, scared people waiting to board the
text: two MASSIVE FERRIES to Seven Sisters. Grumbles turn to YELLS
text: as 800 PRISONERS are loaded onto a ferry by shotgun-toting
speaker_heading: CORRECTIONS OFFICERS.
speaker_heading: CIVILIAN
dialog: That ain't right! We should be on
dialog: that boat.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 123.
speaker_heading: NATIONAL GUARDSMAN
dialog: You want to ride across with them,
dialog: be my guest.
scene_heading: 322 EXT. BROWNSTONE -- DUSK 322
text: Maroni climbs into the back of a limo.
speaker_heading: 323 INT. LIMO -- DUSK 323
text: Maroni settles back into his seat. The car pulls away.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Don't stop for lights, cops, nothing.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Going to join your wife?
dialog: Maroni STARTS. Someone is in here with him. Harvey Dent-
text: Two Face- leans forward, clutching a pistol.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: You love her?
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Yes.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Can you imagine what it would be
dialog: like to listen to her die?
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Take it up with the Joker. He killed
dialog: your woman. Made you... like this...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: The Joker's just a mad dog. I want
dialog: whoever let him off the leash.
text: Maroni looks at Dent. Worried.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: I took care of Wuertz, but who was
dialog: your other man inside Gordon's unit?
dialog: Who picked up Rachel? It must've
dialog: been someone she trusted.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: If I tell you, will you let me go?
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It can't hurt your chances.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 124.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: It was Ramirez.
text: Pulls out his coin. Dent cocks the pistol...
speaker_heading: MARONI (CONT'D)
dialog: But you said-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I said it couldn't hurt your chances.
dialog: Dent FLIPS it. Looks: good side. He shrugs.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Lucky guy.
text: Maroni looks confused. Dent FLIPS the coin again. Looks
text: down at the coin. Shakes his head.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: But he's not.
speaker_heading: MARONI
dialog: Who?
text: Dent smiles. PUTS HIS SEAT BELT ON.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Your driver.
text: Dent presses the barrel of the revolver behind the shadow of
text: the driver. Maroni LUNGES, SCREAMING. Dent FIRES.
speaker_heading: 324 EXT. BRIDGE -- DUSK 324
text: The Limo SWERVES off of the bridge, SOARS out over the canal,
text: and PANCAKES into the RETAINING WALL.
scene_heading: 325 EXT. FERRY TERMINAL -- DUSK 325
text: CIVILIANS CRAM their way onto one ferry. Finally, the
dialog: COMMANDER of the National Guard unit SIGNALS to his men to
speaker_heading: STOP BOARDING and CAST OFF.
text: The two FERRIES set off across the river, heading for the
dialog: lights of the distant shore of the mainland.
scene_heading: 326 INT. BRIDGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 326
text: The FIRST MATE looks out the window, at the second ferry.
text: It is DEAD in the WATER. He turns to the PILOT [PRISON
speaker_heading: FERRY].
speaker_heading: FIRST MATE
dialog: They've lost their engines.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 125.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PRISON FERRY]
dialog: Get on the radio and tell 'em we'll
dialog: come back for them once we dump these
dialog: Scumbags-
text: Suddenly, the control panel FLICKERS and DIES.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PRISON FERRY] (CONT'D)
dialog: Get down to the engine room.
scene_heading: 327 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 327
text: The First Mate skirts around the PRISONERS and CORRECTIONS
dialog: OFFICERS...
scene_heading: 328 INT. ACCESS CORRIDOR, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 328
text: The First Mate opens the door to the engine room. STOPS.
text: HUNDREDS OF BARRELS OF DIESEL FUEL. And a small, wrapped
text: PRESENT, topped with a BOW.
scene_heading: 329 INT. BRIDGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 329
dialog: The Pilot [Prison Ferry] is holding the small present. His
speaker_heading: radio CRACKLES.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PASSENGER FERRY] (O.S.)
dialog: Same thing over here- enough diesel
dialog: to blow us sky high. And a present.
scene_heading: 330 EXT. ELEVATED ROADWAY, DOWTOWN GOTHAM -- CONTINUOUS 330
text: Batman sits on the bat-pod, cape blowing. Listening.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Fox? There's something going on on
dialog: the ferries...
scene_heading: 331 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 331
text: As cold scared Families watch, the NATIONAL GUARD COMMANDER
text: UNWRAPS that ferry's present. Inside, he finds a crude REMOTE
speaker_heading: DETONATOR.
speaker_heading: NATIONAL GUARD COMMANDER
dialog: Why would they give us the detonator
dialog: to our own bomb?
text: Up in the wiring at the ceiling, a CELL PHONE taped in to
dialog: the P.A. rings and answers.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: Tonight, you're all going to be part
dialog: of a social experiment.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 126.
scene_heading: ON BOTH FERRIES: CIVILIANS, PRISONERS, CREW, AND NATIONAL
text: GUARDSMEN ALL LISTEN AS THE JOKER'S VOICE RINGS OUT.
scene_heading: 332 INT. LAB, WAYNE ENTERPRISES -- NIGHT 332
text: Lucius Fox looks up as the console CHIMES.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'm zeroing in.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: Through the magic of diesel fuel and
dialog: ammonium nitrate, I'm ready right
dialog: now to blow you all sky high. Anyone
dialog: attempts to get off their boat, you
dialog: all die...
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: His voice is on the ferry, but that's
dialog: not the source...
scene_heading: 333 EXT. ROOFTOPS ABOVE GOTHAM -- NIGHT 333
text: Batman looks out, across the entire city skyline.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Do you have a location on the Joker?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: It's west...
dialog: Batman FIRES UP the bat-pod- his cape SHRINKS into its pack
text: form as he PEELS OUT, ROARING into the night.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: But we're going to make things a
dialog: little more interesting than that.
dialog: Tonight, we're going to learn a little
dialog: bit about ourselves...
scene_heading: 334 INT. GORDON HOME -- CONTINUOUS 334
text: Barbara Gordon answers the phone.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ (O.S.)
dialog: Barbara, it's Anna Ramirez-
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: Hi, Anna-
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ (O.S.)
dialog: Listen carefully, there's no time.
dialog: Jim needs you to pack up and get the
text: kids in the car right away.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 127.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: But the units outside-
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ (O.S.)
dialog: Barbara, those cops can't be trusted.
dialog: Jim needs you away from them as soon
dialog: as possible. I'll call them off for
dialog: 10 minutes, you'll have to move fast-
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: But where-
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ (O.S.)
dialog: I'm going to give you an address-
dialog: Jim will meet you there...
speaker_heading: 335 EXT. MCU -- CONTINUOUS 335
dialog: Ramirez is holding the phone.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: 250, 52nd street. Leave as soon as
text: the patrol car pulls out.
text: Dent is holding a gun at Ramirez's head. She hangs up.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: She believe you?
dialog: Ramirez nods.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: She trusts you. Just like Rachel
dialog: did.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: I didn't know-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: 'What they were gonna do'? You're
dialog: the second cop to say that to me.
dialog: What, exactly, did you think they
dialog: were going to do?
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: I'm sorry- they got me early on. My
dialog: mother's medical bills and my-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Don't!
dialog: Dent FLIPS his coin.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 128.
speaker_heading: RAMIREZ
dialog: I took a little from them- once
dialog: they've got you, they keep you. I'm
dialog: sorry.
text: Dent looks at his coin. Good side.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Live to fight another day, officer.
text: Dent CRACKS her on the head with his gun.
scene_heading: 336 INT. BRIDGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 336
dialog: The Pilot [Prison Ferry] tries the radio. It's DEAD.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PRISON FERRY]
dialog: He killed the radio.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: There's no need for all of you to
dialog: die. That would be a waste. So
dialog: I've left you both a little present.
scene_heading: 337 EXT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 337
text: The Joker stares out over the harbor, at the ferries. Talking
text: into a cell phone. Holding a detonator, with TWO BUTTONS.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Each of you has a remote to blow up
dialog: the other boat.
scene_heading: 338 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 338
dialog: The Prisoners and Corrections Officers listen. Appalled.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: At midnight, I blow you all up. If,
dialog: however, one of you presses the
dialog: button, I'll let that boat live.
dialog: You
dialog: Choose. So who's it going to be-
dialog: Harvey Dent's most wanted scumbag
dialog: collection... or the sweet innocent
dialog: civilians?
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Oh, and you might want to decide
dialog: quickly, because the people on the
dialog: other boat may not be quite so noble.
dialog: The Joker HANGS UP. The Pilot [Prisoner Ferry] looks down
text: at the remote in his hands. Prisoners begin YELLING and
text: PUSHING. The WARDEN takes the remote from the Pilot- COCKS
text: his shotgun. His men level their weapons at the crowd.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 129.
scene_heading: 339 EXT. FERRY TERMINAL -- CONTINUOUS 339
text: Gordon looks out at the ferries. His phone rings.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Have the Joker's location-
scene_heading: 340 EXT. GOTHAM STREETS -- CONTINUOUS 340
dialog: Batman ROARS along on the bat-pod.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Prewitt building. Assemble on the
dialog: building opposite.
scene_heading: 341 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 341
text: The National Guard Commander is holding the remote. Several
text: passengers take a step towards him. He PULLS his weapon.
speaker_heading: NATIONAL GUARD COMMANDER
dialog: Stay back.
text: A BUSINESSMAN clutching his briefcase speaks up.
speaker_heading: BUSINESSMAN
dialog: Who are you to decide? We ought to
dialog: talk it over, at least.
text: Other passengers agree. A MOTHER with two KIDS speaks up.
speaker_heading: MOTHER
dialog: We don't all have to die. Why should
dialog: my babies die? Those men had their
dialog: chance-
speaker_heading: NATIONAL GUARD COMMANDER
dialog: We're not talking about this...
speaker_heading: PASSENGER 1
dialog: They're talking over the same exact
dialog: thing on the other boat.
speaker_heading: PASSENGER 2
dialog: If they're even bothering to talk.
dialog: Let's put it to a vote.
scene_heading: 342 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 342
text: As the Prisoners grow angrier, a CORRECTIONS OFFICER FIRES
text: his shotgun into the air. The Prisoners back off. Slightly.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 130.
scene_heading: 343 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 343
text: A GUARDSMAN on this boat passes around a hat. People drop
dialog: CHITS into it. Passengers filling out chits eye each other.
dialog: People on their phones say goodbye to loved ones.
dialog: The Pilot [Passenger Ferry] looks out across the water to
text: the other Ferry. Looks up at the clock. Ten to midnight...
dialog: STARES down at his blank chit.
scene_heading: 344 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 344
text: Gordon and his SWAT team leaders set up SNIPER and SCOPE
dialog: positions on the balustrade.
scene_heading: 345 INT. GARAGE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 345
text: A SWAT stands beside the empty school bus.
speaker_heading: SWAT
dialog: We've found our missing bus.
scene_heading: 346 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 346
text: Gordon looks at the SWAT LEADER.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Then we have a hostage situation.
text: They look across at the large windows of the Prewitt Building.
text: The Joker's men, in crude, homemade CLOWN MASKS are clearly
dialog: visible, automatic weapons in hand.
speaker_heading: SWAT SNIPER
dialog: I got hostages!
text: They look through his scope. Crouched deeper in the room,
text: PATIENTS, DOCTORS, and NURSES, huddled.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It's a shooting gallery. Why'd he
dialog: choose a spot with such big windows?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He likes the view.
text: Batman gestures towards the view of the ferries.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: We have clear shots on five clowns.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 131.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER (CONT'D)
dialog: Snipers take them out, smash the
dialog: windows- a team rappels in, a team
dialog: moves in by the stairwells. 2 or 3
dialog: or three casualties, max.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (barely hesitates)
dialog: Let's do it.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: It's not that simple. With the Joker,
dialog: it never is.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What's simple, is that every second
dialog: we don't take him, those people on
dialog: the ferries get closer to blowing
dialog: each other up!
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That won't happen.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Then he'll blow them both up! There's
dialog: no time- we have to go in now-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: There's always a catch with him-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's why we can't wait- we can't
dialog: play his games-
dialog: Batman turns.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I need five minutes. Alone-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No. There's no time. We have clear
dialog: shots.
text: Gordon pulls his gun. Batman turns back. The SWATS watch.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Dent's in there with them. We have
dialog: to save Dent! I have to save Dent!
speaker_heading: (to SWAT Leader)
dialog: Get ready-
dialog: Batman LEAPS from the building, OPENS his cape- SOARS across
dialog: the gulf between the two buildings- Gordon puts his weapon
text: away. Curses softly. Turns to the SWAT leader.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 132.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Two minutes. Then you breach.
scene_heading: 347 EXT. PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 347
dialog: Batman LANDS against the glass two floors below-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Fox. I need picture.
scene_heading: 348 INT. LAB, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -- CONTINUOUS 348
dialog: Fox hits some keys-
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You've got POV. on alpha channel,
dialog: omni on beta-
scene_heading: 349 EXT. PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 349
text: SMOKED GLASS EYEPIECES slip down over Batman's eye holes.
dialog: Batman's SONAR POV.: the layers of the building dissolve,
text: levels of TRANSPARENCY PULSING rhythmically... Batman can
dialog: see the people inside the building...
scene_heading: 350 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 350
text: The Joker is standing by the window, looking out at his
text: handiwork. The Chechen's DOGS start BARKING. He SMILES.
scene_heading: 351 EXT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 351
text: Batman reaches into his utility belt, SPRAYS PLASTIC onto
dialog: the glass- lets it harden- PUNCHES the window-which BREAKS
text: QUIETLY as the pieces stick to the laminate- he slips inside-
scene_heading: 352 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 352
text: Batman's eyes glow white as he uses his sonar to look THROUGH
text: the corner: AN ARMED CLOWN IS LEANING AGAINST THE CORNER...
scene_heading: 353 EXT. ROOFTOP, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 353
text: A six man SWAT team prepares to rappel from the roof.
scene_heading: 354 INT. STAIRWELL, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 354
text: A SWAT team moves up the stairs.
scene_heading: 355 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 355
dialog: Gordon's phone rings.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 133.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Hello? Barbara, calm down-
speaker_heading: DENT (O.S.)
dialog: Hello, Jim.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Harvey? What the hell's going on?
speaker_heading: DENT (O.S.)
dialog: You're about to know what my suffering
dialog: is really like...
text: Gordon looks across at the Prewitt penthouse...
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.)
dialog: Where are you? Where's my family?!
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Where my family died.
text: Click. Gordon looks at the SWAT leader. Pale.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: Red Team. Go!
text: Gordon moves to the door off the roof.
scene_heading: 356 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 356
text: Batman GRABS the Armed Clown, drops him, silently. He goes
text: to disarm him- THE WEAPON IS DUCT-TAPED TO THE CLOWN'S HANDS.
dialog: Batman RIPS off the clown mask:
dialog: STARING, FRIGHTENED EYES- MOUTH DUCT-TAPED SHUT... it's ENGEL.
text: Batman looks up: Four more clowns line the windows, weapons
text: duct-taped to their hands. On SONAR: he looks into where
dialog: the hostages are crouched... the "PATIENTS" and "DOCTORS"
dialog: are carrying weapons- these are the Joker's men... Above
text: them SWATS RAPPEL FROM THE ROOFTOP. In the stairwells, two
dialog: more teams prepping.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Don't. Move.
text: Engel nods, terrified.
scene_heading: 357 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 357
dialog: The SWATS line up the clowns in their sights...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 134.
scene_heading: 358 INT. STAIRWELL, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 358
text: The SWAT team arrives at the penthouse fire exit. They spread
dialog: CHARGES across the inner wall-
scene_heading: 359 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 359
text: The SWAT Leader checks his watch.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: Go! Go! Go!
text: A SWAT Sniper zeroes in on a clown- the clown DISAPPEARS-
dialog: the Sniper looks up, confused-
scene_heading: 360 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 360
text: Batman yanks the clown along the floor using his grapple gun-
text: the clown takes down the two next to him- Batman leaps for
dialog: the nearest two as SHOTS SHATTER the glass-
scene_heading: 361 EXT. PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 361
text: The SWATS rappel down the building- SWING in through the
dialog: broken windows-
scene_heading: 362 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 362
dialog: The "hostages" reel from the BLAST- The SWATS SWOOP in, aiming
dialog: weapons at the clowns, throwing PERCUSSION GRENADES- Batman
text: takes out the SWATS with fists and BATARANGS- The last SWAT
text: aims at BATMAN- behind him a "DOCTOR" raises a shotgun...
dialog: behind the "Doctor" Batman can see through the wall at SWATS
text: preparing to breach... Batman VAULTS over the SWAT into a
dialog: two-foot kick into the "Doctor's" chest-
scene_heading: 363 INT. STAIRWELL, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 363
dialog: The Swats BLAST OUT THE WALL- the team leader steps up to
dialog: the hole... the BAT-GRAPPLE FIRES out-lodging in his kevlar
text: vest... he is YANKED, SCREAMING, through the door. The rest
dialog: of his team look at each other. Steel themselves. Move in
dialog: through the hole...
scene_heading: 364 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 364
text: As the SWATS race in they find Engel, terrified, next to a
dialog: pile of unconscious "hostages", and their team leader, one
text: end of an absailing rope tied around his waist. Batman is
text: on them, weaving KICKING, PUNCHING, and, with one hand,
text: clipping carabinners looped to the absailing rope onto their
dialog: webbing of vests.
text: Batman steps back- picks up the team leader- SWAT weapons
text: aim at him- he hurls the Team Leader out the window... the
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 135.
dialog: SWATS watch him go... the rope pays out... one by one they
dialog: are YANKED out of the window...
scene_heading: 365 EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 365
text: A SNIPER watches through his scope as the six man SWAT team
text: soars out of the window and drops. The line snaps taut and
dialog: they hang, like a mountaineering team in crisis. Batman,
text: crouched in the broken window, secures the line.
speaker_heading: SNIPER
dialog: What the hell's he doing?
text: Batman looks right at the sniper- Raises his grapple gun-
text: BAM. The bat grapple smashes into the Sniper's scope- the
text: rifle is YANKED out of his hands.
scene_heading: 366 INT. PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 366
text: Batman races past a dazed Engel...
speaker_heading: ENGEL
dialog: (pathetic)
dialog: Thanks.
text: ...into the main office. The Joker is there.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: You came. I'm touched.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Where's the detonator?
dialog: The Dogs LEAP at Batman- SMASH him to the ground...
scene_heading: 367 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 367
dialog: The Pilot [Passenger Ferry] finishes counting the votes.
dialog: Reads the verdict.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PASSENGER FERRY]
dialog: The tally is 196 votes against.
dialog: (looks down)
dialog: And 340 votes for.
dialog: The passengers avoid eye contact with each other.
scene_heading: 368 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 368
text: The Corrections Officers are in a phalanx in the corner,
dialog: facing off against hundreds of menacing Prisoners.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 136.
speaker_heading: PRISONER 1
dialog: Do you wanna die!
text: The Warden and his men look at each other. At the clock.
scene_heading: 369 INT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 369
dialog: Batman WRESTLES with the Rotweilers- a blinding mass of
dialog: Batman, black fur and bared teeth-
text: The Joker POPS a switchblade. Moves in to the mass- Batman
dialog: KICKS OFF the last of the dogs- the Joker JABS his knife
dialog: into Batman's RIBS-
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: All the old familiar places.
text: Batman recoils in pain. The Joker BUTTS him- KNEES him-
text: ENERGY explodes from his lean frame- he KICKS the injured
dialog: Batman back towards the glass...
scene_heading: 370 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 370
text: The Pilot [Passenger Ferry] looks at the remote in his hands.
speaker_heading: PILOT [PASSENGER FERRY]
dialog: I voted for it. Same as most of
dialog: you. Doesn't seem right that we
dialog: should all die...
text: Someone calls out from the back.
speaker_heading: PASSENGER 3
dialog: So do it!
speaker_heading: PILOT [PASSENGER FERRY]
dialog: I didn't say I'd do it. Don't forget.
dialog: We're still here. Which means they
dialog: haven't killed us, yet, either.
text: He sets the remote down on a bench in the front of the lounge.
text: The other passengers and guardsmen stare at it...
scene_heading: 371 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 371
text: A HUGE, TATTOOED PRISONER pushes his way to the front. He
text: walks towards the Warden, who is sweating, looking at the
dialog: remote.
speaker_heading: TATTOOED PRISONER
dialog: You don't wanna die. But you don't
dialog: know how to take a life. Give it to
dialog: me.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 137.
text: The Warden looks at the remote. At the clock.
speaker_heading: TATTOOED PRISONER (CONT'D)
dialog: These men will kill you and take it,
dialog: anyway. Give it to me, you can tell
dialog: people I took it by force... give it
dialog: to me and I'll do what you should
dialog: have done ten minutes ago.
scene_heading: 372 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 372
text: Everyone stares at the remote. One minute left. The
text: Businessman stands. Walks over and picks it up.
speaker_heading: BUSINESSMAN
dialog: No one wants to get their hands dirty.
dialog: Fine. I'll do it. Those men on
dialog: that boat made their choices. They
dialog: chose to murder and steal. It makes
dialog: no sense for us to die, too.
text: He looks at the other passengers. No one makes eye contact.
scene_heading: 373 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, PRISONER FERRY -- NIGHT 373
text: The Warden slowly hands him the REMOTE. The Prisoner looks
text: at it. He looks the Warden in the eye...
text: Then TOSSES the remote out the window.
dialog: Warden, prisoners and officers are stunned.
scene_heading: 374 EXT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 374
dialog: Batman FLIES backwards THROUGH THE WINDOW- glass flying- the
text: Joker KICKS out a wooden brace holding up the STEEL FRAME-
text: Batman's arms fly up as it comes crashing down onto his neck-
text: saved by his protective gauntlets. Batman GRUNTS as the
dialog: Joker STEPS onto the steel beam...
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: If we don't stop fighting, we're
dialog: going to miss the fireworks.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: There won't be any fireworks.
text: Batman STRUGGLES to keep the beam from CRUSHING his neck...
scene_heading: 375 INT. PASSENGER LOUNGE, COMMUTER FERRY -- NIGHT 375
text: The Businessman stares at the remote in his hands. Finally,
text: he puts it down. Sits down. Waits to die.
speaker_heading: The clock strikes MIDNIGHT.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 138.
scene_heading: 376 EXT. PENTHOUSE, PREWITT BUILDING -- NIGHT 376
dialog: Batman indicates the clock... twelve o'clock.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What were you hoping to prove? That
dialog: deep down, we're all as ugly as you?
dialog: The Joker looks at the clock...
scene_heading: 377 INT. BOTH FERRIES -- CONTINUOUS 377
dialog: The Passengers brace. Look at the clock. Confused...
scene_heading: 378 INT. PREWITT BUILDING -- CONTINUOUS 378
text: The smile disappears from the Joker's face.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You're alone.
text: The Joker CROUCHES down, hovering above Batman's face and
dialog: arms. Shows him the remote.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Can't rely on anyone these days.
dialog: The Joker ARMS the remote...
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: Have to do everything yourself. I
dialog: always have- and it's not always
dialog: easy...
dialog: (smiles, remembering)
dialog: You know how I got these scars?
text: Batman looks up at him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. But I know how you get these-
text: Batman's SCALLOP BLADES FIRE OUT OF HIS GAUNTLET, nailing
dialog: the Joker in the chest and arm- he STAGGERS back- Batman,
text: freed, leaps forward- KICKS HIM OVER THE EDGE- GRABS the
dialog: remote-
text: The Joker GIGGLES as he FALLS, enjoying the ride. Something
text: SLAMS into his leg, and he JERKS to a stop- BATMAN'S GRAPPLE.
text: The Joker HOLLERS in pain as Batman HAULS him up.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Just couldn't let me go, could you?
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 139.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: I guess this is what happens when an
dialog: unstoppable force meets an immovable
dialog: object. You truly are incorruptible,
dialog: aren't you?
text: Batman secures the Joker UPSIDE DOWN. The Joker is LAUGHING.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: You won't kill me out of some
dialog: misplaced sense of self-
dialog: righteousness... and I won't kill
dialog: you because you're too much fun.
dialog: We're going to do this forever.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You'll be in a padded cell, forever.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Maybe we can share it. They'll need
dialog: to double up, the rate this city's
dialog: inhabitants are losing their minds...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This city just showed you it's full
dialog: of people ready to believe in good.
text: The Joker looks up at him. A twinkle in his eye.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: Till their spirit breaks completely.
dialog: Until they find out what I did with
dialog: the best of them. Until they get a
dialog: good look at the real Harvey Dent,
dialog: and all the heroic things he's done.
dialog: (indicates ferry)
dialog: Then those criminals will be straight
dialog: back onto the streets and Gotham
dialog: will understand the true nature of
dialog: heroism.
dialog: (off look)
dialog: You didn't think I'd risk losing the
dialog: battle for the soul of Gotham in a
dialog: fist fight with you? You've got to
dialog: have an ace in the hole. Mine's
dialog: Harvey.
text: Batman hauls the Joker up, nose to nose.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What did you do?
speaker_heading: THE JOKER
dialog: I took Gotham's white knight.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 140.
speaker_heading: THE JOKER (CONT'D)
dialog: And I brought him down to my level.
dialog: It wasn't hard- madness is like
dialog: gravity. All it takes is a little
dialog: push.
text: Joker laughs. Batman leaves him to the SWATS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Lucius. Find Harvey Dent.
scene_heading: 379 EXT. BURNT WAREHOUSE, 52ND STREET -- NIGHT 379
text: Gordon gets out of his car, gun drawn. Makes his way into
dialog: the blackened wreck of a building...
scene_heading: 380 INT. BURNT WAREHOUSE, 52ND STREET -- NIGHT 380
dialog: Gordon peers into the darkness.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Dent?
text: No reply. Gordon makes his way deeper. Up the stairs.
scene_heading: 381 INT. SECOND FLOOR, BURNT WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT 381
text: Gordon spots Barbara and their two children huddled together.
text: He moves towards them- Barbara is shaking her head-
text: WHAM! Dent cracks Gordon over the head with his gun. Dent
text: disarms Gordon, rolls him over. He turns to look at the
text: ENORMOUS hole in the floor. From this side, in the moonlight,
dialog: Dent looks completely normal.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: This is where they brought her,
dialog: Gordon. After your people handed
dialog: her over. This is where they bound
dialog: her. This is where she suffered.
dialog: This is where she died.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I know. I was here. Trying to save
dialog: her.
text: Dent TURNS, revealing his dark side.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: But you didn't, did you?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I couldn't.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 141.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Yes, you could.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: If you'd listened to me- if you'd
dialog: stood up against corruption instead
dialog: of doing your deal with the devil.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I was trying to fight the mob-
dialog: Dent MOVES towards Gordon.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You wouldn't dare try to justify
dialog: yourself if you knew what I'd lost.
dialog: Have you ever had to talk to the
dialog: person you love most, wondering if
dialog: you're about to listen to them die?
dialog: You ever had to lie to that person?
dialog: Tell them it's going to be all right,
dialog: when you know it's not? Well, you're
dialog: about to find out what that feels
dialog: like. Then you'll be able to look
dialog: me in the eye and tell me you're
dialog: sorry.
text: Dent turns- steps over to Barbara- puts the gun to her temple-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Harvey. Put the gun down. You're
dialog: not going to hurt my family.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: No, just the person you need most.
dialog: (cocks gun)
dialog: So is it your wife?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Put the gun down.
text: Dent moves the gun to point at Gordon's little girl.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Please, Harvey...
text: Dent moves to James Gordon. Brushes the hair out of the
text: boy's eyes with the muzzle. Gordon SNAPS.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Goddamit. Stop pointing that gun at
dialog: my family, Dent.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: We have a winner.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 142.
text: Dent pulls the boy away from his mother.
speaker_heading: BARBARA
dialog: No! Jim stop him! Don't let him!
text: Dent walks James past Gordon to the edge of the burnt floor.
text: He touches the raw wood at the edge of the floor.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm sorry, Harvey. For everything.
dialog: But, please. Please don't hurt him.
speaker_heading: SIRENS.
scene_heading: 382 EXT. BURNT WAREHOUSE, 52ND STREET -- CONTINUOUS 382
text: Cop cars descend on the warehouse.
scene_heading: 383 INT. SECOND FLOOR, BURNT WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 383
text: Dent looks at Gordon, FURIOUS.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You brought your cops?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: All they know is there's a situation.
dialog: They don't know who, or what. They're
dialog: just creating a perimeter.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: You think I want to escape?! There's
dialog: No escape from this-
text: Dent indicates his face. His suffering.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No one needs to escape, because no
dialog: one's done anything wrong. And nobody
dialog: has to.
text: Dent chuckles. A macabre sight.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I've done plenty wrong, Gordon.
dialog: Just not quite enough. Yet.
text: Dent squeezes the gun a little tighter against the little
text: boy's neck. The boy WHIMPERS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You don't want to hurt the boy, Dent.
text: Dent turns. Batman steps from the shadows.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 143.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: It's not about what I want. It's
dialog: about what's fair.
dialog: (to Gordon and Batman)
dialog: You thought we could be decent men
dialog: in an indecent world. You thought
dialog: we could lead by example. You thought
dialog: the rules could be bent but not
dialog: break... you were wrong. The world
dialog: is cruel.
dialog: (shows his coin)
dialog: And the only morality in a cruel
dialog: world is chance. Unbiased.
dialog: Unprejudiced. Fair.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nothing fair ever came out of the
dialog: barrel of a gun, Dent.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (shows the coin)
dialog: His boy's got the same chance she
dialog: had. Fifty-fifty.
text: Batman steps closer, desperate, trying to reach Dent.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What happened to Rachel wasn't chance.
dialog: We decided to act. We three. We
dialog: knew the risks and we acted as one.
dialog: We are all responsible for the
dialog: consequences.
text: Dent looks at Batman. Pleading.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Then why was it only me who lost
dialog: everything?
text: Batman looks into Dent's eyes. Emotional.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: It wasn't.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (furious)
dialog: The Joker chose me!
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Because you were the best of us. He
dialog: wanted to prove that even someone as
dialog: good as you could fall.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 144.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (bitter)
dialog: And he was right.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: But you're fooling yourself if you
dialog: think you're letting chance decide.
dialog: You're the one pointing the gun,
dialog: Harvey. So point it at the people
dialog: who were responsible. We all acted
dialog: as one. Gordon. Me. And you.
text: Dent is listening, the wheels in his deranged mind turning.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Fair enough.
text: Dent eases his grip on the boy.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: You first.
text: He points the gun at Batman. FLIPS the coin. TAILS. He
text: SHOOTS. Batman COLLAPSES to the ground, clutching his gut.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: My turn.
text: He points the gun at his own head. FLIPS the coin. HEADS.
text: He looks a little disappointed.
text: Finally, he points the gun back at Gordon's son.
speaker_heading: DENT (CONT'D)
dialog: Your turn, Gordon.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You're right, Harvey. Rachel's death
dialog: Was my fault. But punish me-
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I'm about to. Tell your son it's
dialog: going to be all right, Gordon. Lie.
dialog: Like I lied.
text: Gordon looks up. Pained. Locks eyes with his son.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It's going to be all right, son.
text: Dent FLIPS the coin. High. Dent's eyes FOLLOW the coin up-
dialog: Batman HURLS himself at Dent and the boy.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 145.
text: All three of them VANISH over the edge. A TERRIBLE CRASH-
text: then silence, but for the sound of DENT'S COIN, SPINNING on
text: the floor at the edge of the hole.
text: Gordon, horrified, RUNS to the edge- peers down- Dent lies
text: at the bottom of the hole, his neck broken. DEAD.
text: The coin stops spinning, GOOD SIDE UP.
text: Gordon's son swings into view, HANGING from Batman, who is
dialog: holding onto a JOIST with all his strength...
text: Gordon reaches down to GRAB his son- HAULS him up...
text: Batman FALLS..., dropping and dropping, SMASHING THROUGH
text: protruding WOOD and PIPES... He lands HARD near Dent.
scene_heading: 384 EXT. BURNT WAREHOUSE, 52ND STREET -- CONTINUOUS 384
text: The cops prepare to STORM the front door.
scene_heading: 385 INT. BURNT WAREHOUSE, 52ND STREET -- CONTINUOUS 385
text: Gordon races down the stairs. Rushes over to Batman.
speaker_heading: JAMES
dialog: Dad, is he okay?
text: Gordon crouches at Batman's side. The Batman GRASPS Gordon's
text: arm. STAGGERS to his feet.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Thank-you.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You don't have to-
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Yes, I do.
text: Gordon and Batman stare down at Dent's body. Grave.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: The Joker won.
text: Gordon stares down at SCARRED SIDE of Harvey Dent.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: Harvey's prosecution, everything he
dialog: fought for, everything Rachel died
dialog: for. Undone. Whatever chance Gotham
dialog: had of fixing itself... whatever
dialog: chance you gave us of fixing our
dialog: city... dies with Harvey's reputation.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 146.
speaker_heading: GORDON (CONT'D)
dialog: We bet it all on him. The Joker
dialog: took the best of us and tore him
dialog: down. People will lose all hope.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. They won't.
dialog: (looks at Gordon)
dialog: They can never know what he did.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (incredulous)
dialog: Five dead? Two of them cops? We
dialog: can't sweep that under-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. But the Joker cannot win.
text: Batman crouches to Dent's body.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: Gotham needs its true hero.
text: Gently, he turns Dent's head so the good side of his face is
text: up. Gordon looks from Dent's face to Batman. Understanding.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You? You can't-
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Yes, I can.
dialog: Batman stands. Faces Gordon.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: You either die a hero or live long
dialog: enough to see yourself become the
dialog: villain. I can do those things
dialog: because I'm not a hero, like Dent.
dialog: I killed those people. That's what
dialog: I can be.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (angry)
dialog: No, you can't! You're not!
dialog: Batman hands Gordon his police radio.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm whatever Gotham needs me to be.
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: GORDON STANDS AT A PODIUM AT DENT'S FUNERAL.
text: BEHIND HIM IS A LARGE PHOTOGRAPH OF DENT SMILING.
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 147.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: ...a hero. Not the hero we deserved-
dialog: the hero we needed. Nothing less
dialog: than a knight. Shining...
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: They'll hunt you.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (V.O.)
dialog: You'll hunt me.
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: GORDON, ON THE ROOF OF GOTHAM CENTRAL, AXE IN
text: HAND, WATCHED BY AN ASSORTMENT OF COPS AND REPORTERS...
speaker_heading: BATMAN (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: You'll condemn me, set the dogs on
dialog: me...
text: GORDON TAKES THE AXE TO THE BAT SYMBOL- SPARKING, SMASHING...
speaker_heading: BATMAN (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ...because it's what needs to happen.
text: INSERT CUT: ALFRED HOLDS THE LETTER FROM RACHEL. THINKING.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: Because sometimes the truth isn't
dialog: good enough...
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: ALFRED BURNS THE ENVELOPE FROM RACHEL.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (CONT'D)
dialog: ...sometimes, people deserve more.
text: INSERT CUT: LUCIUS FOX TYPES HIS NAME INTO THE SONAR MACHINE.
scene_heading: INSERT CUT: FOX HITS THE "X". THE MACHINE FLASHES RED "SELF-
text: DESTRUCT WARNINGS". THEN DIES. FOX SMILES TO HIMSELF.
text: Batman hurries off. LIMPING into the shadows.
speaker_heading: JAMES
dialog: Batman?!
dialog: James RUNS down the stairs to join father-
speaker_heading: JAMES (CONT'D)
dialog: Why's he running, Dad?!
dialog: Gordon stares after Batman.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Because we have to chase him...
scene_heading: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dialog: 148.
scene_heading: 386 EXT. WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 386
dialog: As Cops race into the buildings the DOGS get the scent and
text: pull away from the doorway, following the SHADOW into the
dialog: stacks of shipping containers...
scene_heading: 387 INT. WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS 387
text: James looks at his father, confused.
speaker_heading: JAMES
dialog: He didn't do anything wrong!
text: Gordon stares after the Batman. The sound of the dogs
dialog: becoming louder and more ferocious.
speaker_heading: JAMES (CONT'D)
dialog: Why, dad? Why?!
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Because...
scene_heading: 388 EXT. DOCKSIDE ROOFTOPS -- CONTINUOUS 388
text: The Batman LURCHES between shipping containers. STUMBLING.
dialog: BLEEDING. He makes it to the bat-pod...
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: ...he's the hero Gotham deserves...
dialog: but not the one it needs right now.
dialog: So we'll hunt him, because he can
dialog: take it. Because he's not our hero...
text: The bat-pod streaks through Gotham's underground streets,
text: the Batman's cape fluttering behind. A wraith...
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.) (CONT'D)
dialog: ...he's a silent guardian, a watchful
dialog: protector... a dark knight.
text: The Batman races up a ramp into a blinding light-
speaker_heading: CUT TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: CREDITS.
scene_heading: THE DARK KNIGHT RISES
scene_heading: BLACK SCREEN.
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O)
dialog: Harvey Dent was needed. He was
dialog: everything Gotham has been crying
dialog: out for. He was...a hero. Not the
dialog: hero we deserved - the hero we
dialog: needed. Nothing less than a knight,
dialog: shining...
dialog: 
text: The sound of cracking. Splintering. A shape appears, in ice.
text: The shape of a BAT. The ice disintegrates...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - DAY
dialog: 
text: Gordon stands before a massive picture of Harvey Dent.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: But I knew Harvey Dent. I was...his
dialog: friend. And it will be a very long
dialog: time before someone inspires us the
dialog: way he did.
text: Gordon, choked with emotion, gathers the papers of his
dialog: eulogy.
dialog: I believed in Harvey Dent.
text: And we FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 
text: Racing along a cratered dirt road, and we are -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LAND CRUISER JOSTLING OVER UNEVEN TERRAIN - DAY
text: Three Hooded Men guarded by East European Militia. A third
text: Militia drives. Next to him is a nervous, bespectacled man.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. AIRSTRIP, EASTERN EUROPE - DAY
text: An airstrip overlooking a grey city rocked by artillery
text: fire. A bland CIA Operative, flanked by Special Forces Men,
text: stands in front of a commuter plane. CIA Man watches the
text: Land Cruiser pull up, hard. The Militia Men jump out of the
dialog: vehicle.
text: The Driver shoves the bespectacled man in front of the CIA
dialog: Man.
dialog: 2.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Dr. Pavel, I'm CIA.
text: Dr. Pavel nods, nervous. CIA Man hands the Driver a
dialog: briefcase.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: He wasn't alone.
text: CIA Man, confused, spots the Hooded Men. He turns to Dr.
dialog: Pavel.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: You don't get to bring friends.
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
speaker_heading: (SHAKEN)
dialog: They are not my friends.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Don't worry, no charge for them.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Why would I want them?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: They were trying to grab your
dialog: prize. (Smiles.) They work for the
text: mercenary. The masked man.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
speaker_heading: (EXCITED)
dialog: Bane?
text: The Driver nods. CIA Man turns to his Special Forces Men.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Get 'em on board - I'll call it in.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES OVER MOUNTAIN RANGE - DAY
text: The commuter plane struggles over snow-capped mountains.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The three Hooded Men kneel by the cargo door, handcuffed.
text: CIA Man grabs Hooded Man 1.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: What are you doing in the middle of
dialog: my operation?
dialog: 3.
dialog: 
text: Hooded Man 1 says nothing. CIA Man pulls out a handgun.
dialog: The flight plan I just filed with
dialog: the Agency lists me, my men, and
dialog: Dr. Pavel here. But only one of
dialog: you.
text: CIA Man opens the cargo door. Special Forces hang Hooded Man
text: 1 out into the howling wind - CIA Man shouts above the wind.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
text: FIRST ONE TO TALK GETS TO STAY ON
dialog: MY AIRCRAFT! (Cocks weapon.)
dialog: SO...WHO PAID YOU TO GRAB DR.
dialog: PAVEL?!
dialog: 
text: Nothing. CIA Man fires out the open door and the Special
text: Forces yank Hooded Man 1 back in, clubbing him quiet.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
text: HE DIDN'T FLY SO GOOD! WHO WANTS TO
dialog: TRY NEXT?!
dialog: 
text: The Soldiers grab Hooded Man 2, hang him out the door.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
text: TELL ME ABOUT BANE! WHY DOES HE
dialog: WEAR THE MASK?!
dialog: 
text: The prisoner says nothing. CIA Man presses the gun to the
text: man's hood - he cocks the gun...nothing.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
text: LOT OF LOYALTY FOR A HIRED GUN!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THIRD PRISONER (O.S.)
dialog: Or he's wondering why someone would
text: shoot a man before throwing him out
text: of an aeroplane.
dialog: 
text: CIA Man turns to the Third Prisoner. Shuts the cargo door.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Wiseguy, huh? At least you can
dialog: talk. Who are you?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THIRD PRISONER
dialog: We are nothing. We are the dirt
dialog: beneath your feet. And no one cared
dialog: who I was until I put on the
dialog: mask...
dialog: 
text: CIA Man, wary, approaches the Third Prisoner - pulls off his
text: hood, revealing a dark mask with a breathing apparatus. The
text: eyes behind it are cold. Still. This is Bane.
dialog: 4.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Who we are does not matter. What
dialog: matters is our plan.
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
speaker_heading: (FASCINATED)
dialog: If I pull this off, will you die?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: It would be extremely painful.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: You're a big guy -
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: For you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
speaker_heading: (UNNERVED)
dialog: Was being caught part of your plan?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Of course. Dr. Pavel refused our
dialog: offer in favor of yours. We had to
dialog: know what he told you about us.
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
dialog: Nothing! I said nothing!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Why not just ask him?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: He would not have told us.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: You have methods.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Him, I need healthy. You present no
dialog: such problem.
text: CIA Man laughs for the Special Forces' benefit. A heavy bass
text: tone is rising. The Sergeant looks out the window.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES OVER MOUNTAIN RANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: The commuter plane is dwarfed by a massive transport plane
text: looming over it, dangerously close...
dialog: 5.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: The plane lurches. The noise is building.
speaker_heading: SERGEANT
dialog: Sir?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CIA MAN
dialog: Well congratulations, you got
dialog: yourselves caught. What's the next
dialog: step of your master plan?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Crashing this plane...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The ramp of the transport opens... Four men leap out on
text: tethers - dropping towards the commuter plane, two each
dialog: side...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: The Spacial Forces react to the turbulence from the plane
text: above. CIA Man looks at Bane.
speaker_heading: BANE
speaker_heading: (RISING)
text: With no survivors.
text: A Special Forces soldier spins around - an Armed Man is
text: outside the window. Bang -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES OVER MOUNTAIN RANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Two men shoot through the windows, the other two attach
text: grapples to the fuselage - give the thumbs up - hoists start
text: to pull and the tail of the commuter plane is lifted,
text: unnaturally.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. COCKPIT, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: The Pilots battle the controls as the plane tilts forward.
dialog: 6.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: Like lightning, Bane has the CIA Man is his handcuffed arms,
text: legs wrapped around a seat back, The entire cabin upends.
text: Tumbling chaos - Soldiers falling - Bane cracks CIA Man's
text: neck and drops him onto the Sergeant - they tumble down the
text: plane, smashing into the cockpit door with a terminal thud.
text: Dr. Pavel, strapped in, pushes against the seat in front of
text: him - the plane vibrates, trying to tear itself apart.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ATLAS MOUNTAINS - CONTINUOUS
text: The men climb the tail of the smaller plane as it dangles
text: helplessly above the mountains. Its wings shear off.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane breaks his handcuffs as if they were plastic, then
text: opens his legs and drops down the cabin, somersaulting
text: gracefully and using his arms to stop himself halfway down,
dialog: by Dr. Pavel.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES OVER MOUNTAIN RANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: The men attach explosives to the tail, then jump away,
text: swinging out as the tail explodes.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MAIN CABIN, COMMUTER PLANE - CONTINUOUS
text: An explosion takes off the rear door of the cabin - the
text: Armed Men drop through the smoke on cables.
text: A body bag is lowered into the cabin. Bane lies it on the
text: seat backs next to Dr. Pavel and unzips it to reveal a body
text: the same age and build as Dr. Pavel.
dialog: 
text: Bane rips Dr. Pavel's sleeve - pulls out a length of
text: surgical tubing - pushes a needle into Dr. Pavel's arm -
text: runs the tube to the body's arm... Dr. Pavel watches,
text: horrified, as Bane starts compressions on the body's chest,
text: drawing Dr. Pavel's blood across the tube and into the
dialog: body...
dialog: 
text: An Armed Man pulls Hooded Man 1 up through the cabin and
text: out. Bane stops Hooded Man 2.
dialog: 7.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Friend. They expect one of us in
text: the wreckage.
text: The man nods, unhooks himself, takes Bane's arm.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HOODED MAN 2
dialog: Have we started the fire?
speaker_heading: BANE
speaker_heading: (NODS)
text: The fire rises.
text: Hooded Man 2 hands Bane his line. Bane clips it around Dr.
text: Pavel, takes out a knife and cuts Dr. Pavel's seat belt. Dr.
text: Pavel panics, flails. Bane takes his arms. Gentle.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Calm, Doctor. Now is not time for
dialog: fear...
text: Bane slides Dr. Pavel out of his seat. They hang in the
text: vertical, windblown cabin. Bane takes out a detonator.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
text: That comes later.
text: Bane presses the detonator - the cabin drops from around
text: them, revealing the terrifying drop to the peaks below. Dr.
text: Pavel screams as they are hoisted up towards the transport,
dialog: and we -
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM - EVENING
text: Drifting over the vast city...
speaker_heading: MAYOR (V.O.)
dialog: Harvey Dent Day may not be our
dialog: oldest public holiday...
text: ...moving past the enormous Gotham Bridge...
speaker_heading: MAYOR (V.O.)
dialog: But we're here tonight because it's
dialog: one of the most important...
text: ...over the Gotham river to the Palisades on the far side...
dialog: 8.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAYOR (V.O.)
text: Harvey Dent's uncompromising stand
dialog: against organized crime and, yes,
dialog: ultimately, his sacrifice, have
dialog: made Gotham a safer place than it
dialog: was at the time of his death, eight
dialog: years ago...
text: ...finding a party in the grounds of Wayne Manor. The Mayor
text: addresses the wealthy and powerful of Gotham.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: This city has seen a historic
dialog: turnaround. No city is without
dialog: crime. But this city is without
dialog: organized crime because the Dent
dialog: Act gave law enforcement teeth in
text: its fight against the mob. Now
dialog: people are talking about repealing
dialog: the Dent Act. And to them I
dialog: say...not on my watch.
text: Enthusiastic applause as the Mayor wraps up.
dialog: I want to thank the Wayne
dialog: Foundation for hosting this event.
dialog: I'm told Mr. Wayne couldn't be here
dialog: tonight, but I'm sure he's with us
dialog: in spirit...
dialog: 
text: High above, on a darkened balcony, a lone figure. Watching.
speaker_heading: MAYOR (O.S)
dialog: Now I'm going to give way to an
dialog: important voice...
dialog: 
text: Down below at the bar, Commissioner Gordon examines some
text: sheets of densely written paper. A Congressman muscles in.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Commissioner.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Congressman.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Ever lay eyes on Wayne at one of
dialog: these things?
text: Gordon shakes his head. Gordon's Deputy Commissioner, Foley,
dialog: cuts in.
dialog: 9.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: No one has. Not in years.
speaker_heading: MAYOR (O.S)
dialog: He can tell you about the bad old
dialog: days, when the criminals and
dialog: corrupt ran this town with such a
dialog: tight grasp that people put their
text: faith in a murderous thug in a mask
text: and a cape. A thug who showed his
dialog: true nature when he betrayed the
dialog: trust of this great man - (Turns to
dialog: picture of Dent.) And murdered him
dialog: in cold blood.
text: The Congressman watches a tray of canaps breeze past, then
text: grabs the ass of the maid carrying them. She freezes.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Sweetheart, not so fast with the
dialog: chow.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: (turns, tight smile)
dialog: Shrimp balls?
text: The Congressman grabs two. The Maid moves off. The
text: Congressman glances down at Gordon's papers.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAYOR (O.S)
dialog: Jim Gordon can tell you the truth
dialog: about Harvey Dent...
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Jesus, Gordon, is that your speech?
dialog: We're gonna be here all night.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Maybe the truth about Harvey isn't
dialog: so simple, Congressman.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAYOR (O.S)
dialog: But I'll let him tell you himself -
dialog: Commissioner Gordon?
text: Applause. Gordon approaches the mike. Looks down at his long
dialog: speech. Thinks.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The truth...?
text: INSERT CUT: Harvey Dent, face half destroyed, threatens
text: Gordon's son with a handgun.
dialog: 10.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Gordon surveys the audience. Deciding.
dialog: I have written a speech telling the
dialog: truth about Harvey Dent...
text: Gordon folds up his speech.
dialog: Maybe the time isn't right...
text: Gordon stuffs the papers inside his jacket. The Congressman
text: mutters under his breath.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Thank Christ for that...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Maybe right now all you need to
dialog: know is that there are a thousand
dialog: inmates in Blackgate Prison as a
dialog: direct result of the Dent Act.
dialog: These are violent criminals,
dialog: essential cogs in the organized
dialog: crime machine that terrorized
dialog: Gotham for so long. Maybe, for now,
dialog: all I should say about Harvey
dialog: Dent's death is this...it has not
dialog: been for nothing.
text: The figure on the balcony turns back into the mansion.
text: People clap as Gordon leaves the mike. Gordon approaches
dialog: Foley.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The second shift reports in?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: On your desk. But you should put in
dialog: some more time with the Mayor -
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's your department.
dialog: 
text: Gordon heads for the line of town cars in the gravel drive.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Anyone shown him the crime stats?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
text: He goes by his gut, and it
dialog: continues to bother him, whatever
dialog: the numbers.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: Must be popular with the wife.
dialog: 11.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Not really. She took the kids and
dialog: moved to Cleveland.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: He'll have plenty of time for
text: visits. Mayor's dumping him in the
dialog: spring.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Really? He's a hero.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: War hero. This is peacetime. Stay
dialog: smart, the job's yours.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. KITCHENS, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: Our Maid dives into the bustle of Wayne Manor below stairs -
text: Caterers and Maids, Wait Staff. She overhears another Maid.
speaker_heading: MAID 2
dialog: They say he never leaves the East
dialog: Wing.
speaker_heading: MAID 3
dialog: I heard he had an accident - that
text: he's disfigured.
dialog: 
text: The other Maids signal her to be quiet. All the chatter has
text: died. Alfred has entered the kitchen.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mr. Till, why are your people using
dialog: the main stairs?
text: Alfred places a glass of water on a tray next to a covered
text: plate. Picks up the tray, looks around the chaotic kitchen.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Where's Mrs. Bolton?
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: She's up at the bar, sir. Can I
dialog: help?
dialog: 
text: Alfred looks at the Maid. Hands her a key and the tray.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: The East drawing room. Unlock the
dialog: door, place the tray on the table,
dialog: lock the door again. Nothing more.
dialog: 12.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The Maid nods. Takes the tray.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: Following the Maid through the empty house. She comes to the
text: large oak door to the East Wing. Unlocks it...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DRAWING ROOM, EAST WING, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
text: The room is dark, quiet. The Maid places the tray on the
text: table. She looks at the inner door opposite. It is ajar...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Alfred talks to an elegant woman, thirties, Miranda Tate.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm sorry, Miss Tate, but I've
dialog: tried. He won't see you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: It's important, Mr. Pennyworth.
text: Her accent is European. Hard to place.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Mr. Wayne is as determined to
dialog: ignore important things as trivial
dialog: ones.
speaker_heading: MALE VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Don't take it personally, Miranda.
dialog: 
text: They turn to see a man in his fifties. Daggett.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Everyone knows Wayne's holed up in
text: there with eight-inch nails, peeing
dialog: into Mason jars. (To Alfred.) Good
dialog: of you to let me on the grounds.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The Dent Act is about all Gotham.
dialog: Even you, Mr. Daggett. Miss Tate,
dialog: always a pleasure.
text: Alfred turns and walks off. Daggett smiles, glib.
dialog: 13.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Why waste your time talking to the
dialog: man who threw away your investment
dialog: on some save-the-world vanity
dialog: project? He can't help you get your
dialog: money back. But I can.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: I could try explaining that a
dialog: save-the-world project, vain or
dialog: not, is worth investing in,
dialog: whatever the return. I could try,
dialog: Mr. Daggett, but you understand
dialog: only money and the power you think
dialog: it buys, so why waste my time,
dialog: indeed?
dialog: 
text: She walks away. Daggett watches her go.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DRAWING ROOM, EAST WING, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Close on the dinner tray. We hear a labored step approach.
text: Bruce Wayne appears, leaning on a cane. Gaunt. Grey temples.
text: He lifts the lid of his dinner, then freezes, hearing
text: something. He slowly limps into the next room...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SITTING ROOM, EAST WING, WAYNE MANOR, CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The Maid looks at framed photographs of Rachel, Thomas and
text: Martha Wayne. Some are half-burned. She notices an archery
text: target, arrows stuck in it. She reaches out. WHAM! An arrow
text: sticks into the target - the Maid spins around, flustered.
text: Wayne, at the other end of the long room, lowers a composite
text: bow. Picks up his cane.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: I'm, I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: It is Mr. Wayne, isn't it?
dialog: 
text: Wayne nods, gently. Limps towards her.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Although you don't have the long
dialog: nails... (Nervous laugh.) Or facial
dialog: scars...
text: She trails off, embarrassed. Coy. She seems very young.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Is that what they say about me?
dialog: 14.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: It's just that...nobody sees you...
dialog: 
text: Wayne approaches slowly. He nods at her pearl necklace.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That's a beautiful necklace.
dialog: Reminds me of the one that belonged
dialog: to my mother. It can't be the same
dialog: one - her pearls are in this safe -
text: He reaches out with his cane to press open a panel on the
text: bureau, revealing a safe door...
dialog: - which the manufacturer clearly
text: explained is uncrackable.
dialog: 
text: ...which swings open with an awkward creak.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Oops. No one told me it was
text: uncrackable.
dialog: 
text: The Maid suddenly seems more confident. Older.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm afraid I can't let you take
dialog: those.
dialog: 
text: She smiles at him. Moves towards him.
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Look, you wouldn't hit a woman any
dialog: more than I would beat up a
dialog: cripple.
text: She kicks his cane from under him, smashes him down.
dialog: Of course, sometimes exceptions
dialog: have to be made.
dialog: 
text: The Maid vaults onto the bureau and up to a high window.
dialog: Goodnight, Mr. Wayne.
text: She flips backwards through the window. Wayne smiles, then
text: rocks forward on his good leg and rises with athletic grace.
text: He looks at the safe, notices something. Powder...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DRIVE, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Moving toward the line of town cars, the Maid pulls off her
text: white apron, cuffs and collar, leaving a black dress and
text: pearls. A Valet hurries to open a car door for her - she
text: slips into a town car...beside the Congressman.
dialog: 15.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MAID
dialog: Can I have a ride?
text: The Congressman, a little tipsy, looks at her hungrily.
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
dialog: You read my mind.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. EAST WING, WAYNE MANOR - LATER
dialog: 
text: Alfred enters, to find Wayne kneeling at the safe.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Miss Tate was asking to see you
dialog: again.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: She's very persistent.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And quite lovely, in case you were
dialog: wondering.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I wasn't.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What are you doing?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Examining print dust. We've been
dialog: robbed.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And this is your idea of raising
dialog: the alarm?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (SHRUGS)
text: She took the pearls. Tracking
dialog: device and all.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: She?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: One of the maids, perhaps you
dialog: should stop letting them in this
text: side of the house.
dialog: 16.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps you should learn to make
dialog: your own bed, then. Why are you
dialog: dusting for prints?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm not. She was.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP, MAJOR CRIMES UNIT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon brings a stack of files against the air duct, settles
text: to read. Next to him is a rusty, broken searchlight.
speaker_heading: YOUNG VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: Sir?
dialog: 
text: A young Cop is standing there. This is Blake.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I didn't want to bother you up
dialog: here, but they're looking for you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What's the problem, son?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Congressman Gilly's wife's been
dialog: calling. He hasn't made it home
dialog: from the Wayne Foundation event.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's a job for the police?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Sir, I've been a cop for a year and
dialog: I've only logged half a dozen
dialog: arrests. When you and Dent cleaned
dialog: the streets you cleaned 'em good.
dialog: Pretty soon we'll be chasing
text: overdue library books.
text: Gordon smiles at this. Blake looks at his stack of files.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: But here you are. Like we're still
dialog: at war...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Old habits.
dialog: 17.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Or instinct.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What's your name, son?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Blake, sir.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You have something you want to ask
dialog: me, Officer Blake?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It's that night. This night, eight
dialog: years ago. The night Dent died.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What about it?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: The last confirmed sighting of the
dialog: Batman. He murders those people,
text: takes out two SWAT teams, breaks
text: Dent's neck...then just vanishes?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm not hearing a question, son.
dialog: 
text: Blake shifts uneasily. Then looks at Gordon.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Don't you want to know who we was?
text: Gordon turns to look at the broken searchlight. He brushes
text: his fingers across its rusted shell.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I know exactly who he was. (Turns
dialog: to Blake.) He was Batman.
dialog: 
text: Gordon walks past Blake, heading for the stairs.
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.)
dialog: Let's go see about the
dialog: Congressman's wife...
dialog: 18.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. EAST WING, WAYNE MANOR - MORNING
text: Alfred takes his tray into the bedroom. The bed is empty.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne?
text: Alfred's voice echoes through the vast mansion. No reply.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STUDY, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: Alfred hits three notes on the piano. The bookcase opens.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - CONTINUOUS
text: Alfred descends into the caverns beneath Wayne Manor.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Alfred walks through the arches as the stone floor starts to
text: lower, becoming a ramp. At the bottom, Alfred is level with
text: a series of dark slate obelisks - a bridge over the water to
text: where Wayne sits at a computer atop a massive slate cube.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You haven't been down here in a
dialog: long time...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Just trying to find out more about
dialog: our jewel thief. I ran her prints
dialog: from the photos she handled -
text: Wayne pulls up a mug shot - a fat, male armed-robbery
dialog: suspect.
dialog: - but she was wearing someone
dialog: else's fingerprints. She's good.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: She may be. But we have the trace
text: on the necklace.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: We do, so I cross-referenced the
dialog: address she went back to with
dialog: police data on high-end
dialog: B-and-E's...
dialog: 
text: Wayne hits a key. A photograph of the Maid appears.
dialog: Selina Kyle. The databases are full
dialog: of close calls, tips from fences...
dialog: 19.
dialog: 
dialog: Newspaper headlines appear -
text: THE CAT STRIKES AGAIN, POLICE SUSPECT 'CAT' BURGLAR IN JEWEL
speaker_heading: HEIST.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: She's good, but the ground is
text: shrinking beneath her feet.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: We should send the police before
text: she fences the pearls.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: She won't. She likes them too much.
dialog: And they weren't what she was
dialog: after.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What was she after?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: My fingerprints. There was printer
dialog: toner mixed with graphite on the
dialog: safe. Gives you a good pull, and
text: it's untraceable.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Fascinating. Maybe you should
text: exchange notes over coffee.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Now you're trying to set me up with
dialog: a jewel thief?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: At this point, sir, I would set you
dialog: up with a chimpanzee if I thought
dialog: it would bring you back into the
dialog: world.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: There's nothing out there for me.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And that's the problem. You hung up
text: the cape and cowl, but never moved
dialog: on. You won't get out there and
dialog: find a life. Find someone -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (BITTER)
dialog: I did find someone, Alfred.
dialog: 20.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I know. And then you lost them.
dialog: That's part of living, sir. But
dialog: you're not living - you're waiting.
text: Hoping for things to go bad again.
dialog: 
text: Wayne says nothing.
dialog: Remember when you left Gotham?
dialog: Before all this. Before Batman.
dialog: Seven years you were gone. Seven
dialog: years I waited. Hoping that you
dialog: wouldn't come back.
text: Wayne looks at Alfred. Not understanding.
dialog: Every year I took my holiday. I'd
dialog: go to Florence. There's a caf by
dialog: the Arno... Any fine evening I
dialog: would sit there and order a Fernet
dialog: Branca...
text: INSERT CUT: Alfred seated in a caf sipping his drink...
dialog: I had a fantasy. I liked to imagine
dialog: that one day I'd look across the
dialog: tables, and see you. Sitting there
dialog: with your wife. Perhaps some kids.
dialog: You wouldn't say anything to me, or
dialog: me to you, but we'd both
dialog: know...that you'd made it. That you
dialog: were happy.
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: Alfred spots a couple at another table and looks
text: closer, hopeful. But they are strangers.
dialog: I never wanted you to come back to
dialog: Gotham. I knew there was nothing
dialog: there for you but pain and tragedy,
dialog: and I wanted more for you than
dialog: that. I still do.
text: Alfred leaves Wayne to his cave. His bats.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WATER TREATMENT FACILITY - DAY
text: Blake and his partner, Ross, get out of their patrol car. A
text: DWP Man leads them down a long concrete trough.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DWP MAN
dialog: They wash up a couple times a
dialog: month. More when in gets colder -
text: homeless sheltering in the tunnels.
dialog: We had to pull him to clear the
dialog: basin, but other than that we
dialog: didn't touch him...
dialog: 21.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: They come out by the catchment basin. Above the grille lies
text: a body - a teenage boy. Blake looks down at him. Freezes.
speaker_heading: ROSS
dialog: What?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Name's Jimmy. He's at St.
dialog: Swithin's. (Off look.) The boys
dialog: home where I...I coach some ball.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ST. SWITHIN'S HOME FOR BOYS - DAY
text: Blake looks up at the shabby building.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ST. SWITHIN'S HOME FOR BOYS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Blake is talking to Father Reilly.
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Jimmy hadn't been here for months.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: You know why, Blake - he aged out.
dialog: We don't have the resources to keep
dialog: boys on after sixteen -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: The Wayne Foundation gives money
dialog: for that -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Not for two years now.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: He has a brother here, right?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Mark. I'll tell him.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I'd like to, if that's okay.
dialog: 22.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. PLAYGROUND, ST. SWITHIN'S - MOMENTS LATER
text: Father Reilly watches as Blake sits with Mark - ten.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I'm sorry.
dialog: 
text: Mark nods slowly. Staring straight ahead.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What was he doing in the tunnels?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: Lot of guys been going down the
dialog: tunnels when they age out. Say you
dialog: can live down there. Say there's
dialog: work down there.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What kind of work are you gonna
dialog: find in the sewers?
speaker_heading: MARK
dialog: More than you can find up here, I
dialog: guess.
text: Blake considers this. Troubled.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DIVE BAR - NIGHT
text: Selina Kyle, in a little black dress, walks in with a drunk
text: in a Hawaiian shirt. She sits him on a bar stool - walks
text: over to a table where a neatly dressed man, Stryver, sits.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: You brought a date?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I like having someone around to
dialog: open doors for me.
dialog: 
text: Selina glances around. Things scattered throughout the bar.
text: Jumpy. Selina hands an envelope to Stryver.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Right hand. No partials.
text: Stryver slides a transparency out of the envelope. Holds it
text: up to the light. Four perfect fingerprint transfers.
dialog: 23.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Very nice.
text: He pockets the envelope.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Not so fast, handsome. You got
dialog: something for me?
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Oh, yes.
dialog: 
text: Stryver signals a Thug who locks the door. Another Thug
text: joins them at the table. Selina smiles.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I don't know what you're going to
dialog: do with Mr. Wayne's prints...but
dialog: I'm guessing you'll need his thumb.
text: As Stryver checks the envelope again -
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You don't count so good, huh?
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: I count fine.
text: The Second Thug puts a gun to Selina's head.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: In fact, I'm counting to ten right
dialog: now...
text: Selina looks in his eyes. The Thug cocks his gun. She
text: blinks.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Okay, okay -
dialog: 
text: She reaches for her purse. The Thug stops her, reaches in
text: himself - pulls out a cellphone. Slides it across the table.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: My friend is waiting outside. Just
dialog: hit 'send'...
dialog: 
text: Stryver looks at the phone. Hits 'send'. Selina sizes up her
text: options. A knock on the door. Second Thug hides his gun. The
text: door opens - a young woman, Jen. She enters, cheerful, spots
text: Selina. Pulls out an envelope, looks around.
dialog: 24.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JEN
text: Place is a little dead.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: (takes envelope, tense)
dialog: It'll liven up in a minute, trust
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: Everything okay?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Great. Catch you later.
text: Jen leaves. Stryver checks the envelope. Satisfied.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It would've been a lot easier to
dialog: just give me what we agreed.
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: We can't have loose ends. And even
dialog: in that dress, no one's going to
dialog: miss you.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: No. But my friend over there...?
text: Stryver looks at Selina's 'date' drooling into a bowl of
text: nuts at the bar - he looks familiar...
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Every cop in the city's missing
dialog: him.
dialog: 
text: Across the bar, the TV on mute -
text: MANHUNT FOR MISSING CONGRESSMAN.
text: Stryver looks at Selina.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Cute. But they're not gonna be
dialog: looking in a place like this.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I don't know... You did just use
text: his cell phone.
text: Stryver glances down at the cell phone as - SCREECH - the
text: Thugs look out the window at cop cars and SWAT units
text: descending on the bar. Stryver glances at the window and -
text: SMASH - Selina CRACKS his head against the table, grabs
dialog: 25.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Second Thug's gun hand, flips over the table, firing at the
text: other Thugs, who drop. The SWATs batter down the door.
text: Selina crouches, cowering, screaming.
speaker_heading: SWAT
dialog: It's alright, Miss. Just stay down
dialog: -
text: The SWATs barrel past, chasing the remaining Thugs back
text: through the bar and out into the back alley. Selina smiles.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY BEHIND BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: The Thugs turn and open up on the SWATs with automatic
dialog: weapons.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DIVE BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Selina moves to the door. Spots the Congressman under the
text: bar, clutching his bleeding leg.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Keep some pressure on that,
dialog: sweetheart.
text: She adjusts her dress in the broken mirror behind the bar.
text: Moves for the door.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CONGRESSMAN
speaker_heading: (WEAK)
dialog: Call me?
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DIVE BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Selina waltzes out - right into Blake. She feigns panic.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: There's a man in there - he's
dialog: bleeding!
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It's okay, Miss. It's okay.
dialog: 
text: Blake helps Selina down onto the tailgate of a SWAT truck.
text: He heads into the bar, weapon drawn. Selina slips behind the
text: truck and into the night.
dialog: 26.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DIVE BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake enters, gun drawn. Spots the Congressman.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (INTO RADIO)
dialog: I've got the Congressman - bullet
text: to the leg, but he's okay.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY BEHIND BAR - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The SWATs return fire. The Thugs lay down cover fire, then
text: race around a corner into a smaller passage.
text: A cop car pulls up, blocking the mouth of the alley - Gordon
text: jumps out, gun drawn.
dialog: 
text: The SWATs approach the passage, massing on both corners
text: tactically. The two corner SWATs exchange hand signals,
text: counting down... They round the corner, aiming low and high.
text: The passage is empty.
dialog: 
text: The SWATs cover a fire escape, but Gordon spots at once -
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Manhole!
dialog: 
text: He races to the manhole cover - SWATs wrench off the cover,
text: Gordon grabs a flashlight from the nearest SWAT.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You three, down with me. You two,
text: head down to cover the next exit -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SWAT
dialog: Where -?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Get the DWP down here, now!
dialog: 
text: Gordon starts climbing down the ladder...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon moves down the tunnel, flashlight low. Three SWATs
dialog: fall in behind...
dialog: 27.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY BEHIND BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake comes into the alley. Cops surround the manhole.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Where's the DWP guy?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: They went down there?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: (shaking his head)
text: And Gordon took SWAT in after them.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon hears a noise up ahead - pushes forward, rounds the
text: corner. BANG! GUNFIRE. SWATs return fire, shots sparking off
text: the concrete walls, then - BOOM - behind him the tunnel
text: ERUPTS IN FIRE, blasting the SWATs. Gordon races forward,
text: tearing through the tunnels.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY BEHIND BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake jumps back as a fireball bursts out of the manhole.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon races around a corner, gun drawn. A noise makes him
text: turn - WHACK, he is clobbered from behind by a Thug.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY BEHIND BAR - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake pushes forward.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Come on, we gotta get down there -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: That was a gas explosion, kid -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Gas? This is a sewer!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: No one goes in there till we know
dialog: what's down there.
dialog: 28.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: We know what's down there, sir. The
dialog: Police Commissioner!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Somebody get the hothead out of
dialog: here. And get me a DWP guy!
text: Blake backs off. Gets an idea - goes for his patrol car.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Thug 1 flips Gordon onto his back.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: This one's alive. (Looks closer.)
dialog: Jesus. It's the Police
dialog: Commissioner.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: What do we do?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: Take him to Bane.
text: The two Thugs drag Gordon down through the maze of tunnels.
text: As they descend deeper they encounter work crews of muscular
text: men wielding large drills and jackhammers, working the walls
text: and ceiling of the larger tunnels. Some of the men are armed
text: Mercenaries, overseeing gangs of homeless street kids. They
text: stare as Gordon is dragged past. The Thugs drag Gordon
dialog: between two waterfalls, into -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BANE'S LAIR, SEWERS - CONTINUOUS (NIGHT)
text: They approach a figure, turned away, crouched in the
text: firelight. Bare-chested, muscular, masked. Bane. A crooked
text: line of scar tissue runs the length of his spine...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Why are you here?
text: The Thugs drop Gordon at Bane's feet.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: Answer him!
text: Bane slowly turns to the Thugs.
dialog: 29.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I'm asking you.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: It's the Police Commissioner.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: And you brought him down here?
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: We didn't know what to do. We -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You panicked. And your weakness
dialog: costs three lives.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: No, he's alone -
text: Bane flips the Thug's chin up and to the side with a crack.
text: Thug 1 drops. Bane turns to Thug 2.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Search him. Then I will kill you.
text: The Thug, terrified, pulls out Gordon's badge, wallet,
text: gun...and the folded papers of the speech he did not read.
text: Bane takes these one by one with quick glances. He stops at
text: the papers. Unfolds them...
dialog: 
text: As he reads, Gordon rolls off the steps, dropping into the
text: rushing flow of water - gunshots ring out...
speaker_heading: THUG 2
text: He's dead.
dialog: 
text: Thug 2 trails off as Bane looks up from the papers...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Then show me his body.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: That water runs to any one of the
dialog: outflows - we'd never find him.
text: Bane turns to the Lead Mercenary.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Give me your GPS.
text: Lead Mercenary hands him a GPS - Bane tucks it into Thug 2's
text: jacket, zips it up like a mother sending her kid to school.
dialog: 30.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Follow him.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: Follow him?
dialog: 
text: Bane shoots Thug 2, kicks him into the water. Turns to Lead
dialog: Mercenary.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Track him. Make sure both bodies
dialog: will not be found. Then brick up
dialog: the south tunnel.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WATER TREATMENT FACILITY - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Blake comes out to the catchment basin. He spots something
text: stuck up against the grille, thrusts his hand into the
text: raging waters - Gordon is there, alive. Just. Blake pulls
text: him up onto the concrete, hoists him up, hurrying...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALL, WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: Alfred opens the door to reveal Blake in his dirty uniform.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I need to see Bruce Wayne.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm sorry, Mr. Wayne doesn't take
text: unscheduled calls. Even from police
dialog: officers.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: And if I go get a warrant, in the
dialog: investigation of Harvey Dent's
dialog: murder? Would that still count as
dialog: unscheduled?
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STUDY, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: Blake is sitting, drumming his leg, nervous. Wayne enters.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What can I do for you, officer?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: Commissioner Gordon's been shot.
dialog: 31.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm sorry to hear that -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: He chased a gunman down into the
dialog: sewers. When I pulled him out he
text: was babbling about an underground
text: army. A masked man called 'Bane'.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Shouldn't you be telling this to
dialog: your superior officers?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I did. One of them asked if he saw
dialog: any giant alligators down there. He
dialog: needs you. He needs the Batman.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If Commissioner Gordon thinks I'm
dialog: the Batman he must be in a bad way
dialog: -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: He doesn't know or care who you
dialog: are. (Off look.) But we've met
dialog: before. When I was a kid. At the
dialog: orphanage. See, my mom died when I
dialog: was small. Car accident, I don't
dialog: really remember it. But a couple of
dialog: years later my dad was shot over a
dialog: gambling debt. I remember that just
dialog: fine. (Looks at Wayne.) Not a lot
dialog: of people who know what it feels
dialog: like, do they? To be angry. In your
dialog: bones. People understand, foster
text: parents understand. For a while.
dialog: Then they expect the angry kid to
dialog: do what he knows he can never do.
dialog: To move on. To forget.
dialog: 
text: Wayne stares at Blake.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: So they stopped understanding and
text: sent the angry kid to a boys' home
dialog: - St. Swithin's. Used to be funded
dialog: by the Wayne Foundation. See, I
dialog: figured it out too late. You have
dialog: to hide the anger. Practice smiling
dialog: in the mirror. Like putting on a
dialog: mask. You showed up one day in a
dialog: cool car, pretty girl on your arm.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 32.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE (CONT'D)
dialog: We were so excited - Bruce Wayne,
dialog: billionaire orphan. We made up
dialog: stories about you. Legends. The
dialog: other boys' stories were just that.
dialog: But when I saw you I knew who you
dialog: really were... (Beat.) I'd seen
dialog: that look on your face. Same one I
dialog: taught myself.
text: Blake gets up to leave. Wayne is lost in thought.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I don't know why you took the fall
dialog: for Dent's murder, but I'm still a
dialog: believer in the Batman. Even if
dialog: you're not.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why did you say your boys' home
dialog: used to be funded by the Wayne
dialog: Foundation?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Because the money stopped. Might be
dialog: time to get some fresh air and
dialog: start paying attention to the
dialog: details. Some of those details
dialog: might need your help.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: Wayne and Alfred watch Blake drive away.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You checked that name? 'Bane' -
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Ran it through some databases. He's
dialog: a mercenary. No other known name.
dialog: Never been seen or photographed
text: without a mask. He and his men were
dialog: behind a coup in West Africa that
dialog: secured mining operations for our
dialog: friend John Daggett.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Now Daggett's brought them here?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It would seem so. I'll keep
dialog: digging.
dialog: 33.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Alfred turns to leave.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why did the Wayne Foundation stop
dialog: funding boys' homes in the city?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The Foundation is funded from the
dialog: profits of Wayne Enterprises...
dialog: (Off look.) There have to be some.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Time to talk to Mr. Fox, I think.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'll get him on the phone -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No. Do we still have any cars
dialog: around the place?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
speaker_heading: (LIGHTS UP)
dialog: One or two.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: And I need an appointment at the
dialog: hospital. About my leg.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Which hospital, sir?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Whichever one Jim Gordon's in.
dialog: 
text: Alfred is less excited by this part of the request.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - DAY
dialog: 
text: Moving towards the tall skyscraper downtown.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA (V.O.)
dialog: Mr. Fox, I believe in what Mr.
dialog: Wayne was trying to do...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BOARDROOM, WAYNE ENTERPRISES - CONTINUOUS
text: Miranda is talking to Lucius Fox at the table.
dialog: 34.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: I'm only asking for explanations
dialog: because I think I can help.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'll pass along your request. Next
dialog: time I see him.
text: Miranda catches something in this.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: He doesn't talk to you either?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Let's just say that Bruce Wayne has
dialog: his...eccentricities.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
speaker_heading: (RISING)
dialog: Mr. Fox, are you aware that John
dialog: Daggett is trying to acquire shares
dialog: in Wayne Enterprises?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I was not. But it wouldn't do him
dialog: any good - Mr. Wayne still retains
text: a clear majority.
text: Miranda leaves. Fox moves into his office - stops.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Bruce Wayne. As I live and breathe.
text: Wayne rises, pushing hard on his cane.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What brings you out of cryo-sleep
dialog: Mr. Wayne?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I see you haven't lost your sense
dialog: of humor...even if you have lost
dialog: most of my money.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Actually, you did that yourself.
dialog: See, if you funnel the entire R and
dialog: D budget for five years into a
dialog: fusion project that you then
dialog: mothball, your company is unlikely
dialog: to thrive.
dialog: 35.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Even with -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
text: A wildly sophisticated CEO, yes.
dialog: Wayne Enterprises is running out of
text: time. And Daggett is moving in.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What're my options?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: If you're not willing to turn your
dialog: machine on -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I can't, Lucius.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Then sit tight. Your majority keeps
dialog: Daggett at arm's length while we
dialog: figure out a future for the energy
dialog: program with Miranda Tate - she's
dialog: supported your project all the way.
dialog: She's smart, and quite lovely.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You too, Lucius?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We all just want what's best for
dialog: you, Bruce. Show her the machine.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'll think it over.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Anything else?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No, why?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: These conversations always used to
dialog: end with some...unusual requests.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I retired.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Let me show you some stuff, anyway.
text: Fox hits a button - the bookcase opens into a hidden
dialog: elevator.
dialog: 36.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. APPLIED SCIENCES - MOMENTS LATER
text: Fox leads Wayne into the vast, gadget-filled space. They
dialog: pass Tumblers with different weapons configurations...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I figured you'd have shut this
dialog: place down.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: It was always shut down,
dialog: officially.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: But all this new stuff?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: After your father died, Wayne
dialog: Enterprises set up fourteen
dialog: different defense subsidiaries.
dialog: I've spent years shuttering them
dialog: and consolidating all the
dialog: prototypes under one roof. My roof.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Stop them falling into the wrong
dialog: hands. Besides, I thought someone
dialog: might get some use out of them...
text: Wayne shakes his head.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Sure I can't tempt you to
dialog: something? Pneumatic crampons?
dialog: Infrared lenses? Least let me get
dialog: you something for that leg.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It's fine the use it gets these
dialog: days.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Well, then I have just the thing
dialog: for an eccentric billionaire who
dialog: doesn't like to walk...
text: Fox opens a door - we glimpse a sleek vehicle. Wayne's eyes
dialog: light up.
dialog: 37.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Now you're just showing off.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Defense Department project for
text: tight-geometry urban pacification.
text: Rotors configured for maneuvering
dialog: between buildings without
text: recirculation.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What's it called?
speaker_heading: FOX
text: It has a long and uninteresting
dialog: Wayne Enterprises designation. So I
dialog: took to calling it the Bat. And
dialog: yes, Mr. Wayne, it does come in
dialog: black.
text: Wayne touches its sleek side. Marveling.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Works great except for the
text: autopilot.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What's wrong with that?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Software-based instability. Take a
dialog: better mind than mine to fix it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Better mind?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I was trying to be modest. A less
dialog: busy mind. Yours, perhaps.
text: Wayne looks wistfully at the machine. Turns away.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I told you. I retired, Lucius.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. EXAMINATION ROOM, GOTHAM GENERAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT
text: Wayne listens, distracted, while a Doctor examines an X-ray.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: I've seen worse cartilage in knees
dialog: -
dialog: 38.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That's good -
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: No, that's because there is no
dialog: cartilage in your knee. And not
dialog: much of any use in your elbows and
dialog: shoulders. Between that and the
dialog: scar tissue on your kidneys,
dialog: residual concussive damage to your
dialog: brain tissue and general
dialog: scarred-over quality of your
dialog: body... (Takes a deep breath.) I
dialog: cannot recommend that you go
text: heli-skiing. About the only part of
dialog: your body that looks healthy is
dialog: your liver, so if you're bored I
dialog: recommend you take up drinking, Mr.
dialog: Wayne.
text: Wayne smiles. The Doctor leaves. Wayne pulls on a ski mask,
text: steps to the window, hops up, pulls a wire from his cane,
text: which he clips to his belt. He props his cane behind the
text: frame - jumps out. The wire unspools from the cane as -
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TENTH FLOOR, GOTHAM GENERAL HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
text: Wayne drops three floors...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PRIVATE ROOM, GOTHAM GENERAL - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon lies in his bed, hooked up to machines. Wayne, in ski
text: mask, stands over him. Gordon's eyes flutter open. He tries
text: to speak with a weak, hoarse voice...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We were in this together. Then you
dialog: were gone...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: The Batman wasn't needed anymore.
dialog: We won.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Built on a lie. Our lie. Now
dialog: there's evil rising from where we
dialog: tried to bury it. Nobody will
dialog: listen... The Batman has to come
dialog: back.
dialog: 39.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What if he doesn't exist anymore?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: He must. He must.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. LAMBORGHINI ON GOTHAM STREETS - NIGHT
text: Wayne pulls up in front of a row of shabby subdivided town
text: houses. Checks a tracking device. Jon, provocatively
text: dressed, leads a Yuppie Banker-type in through a front door.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Selina sits in a small room getting ready to go out. She
text: picks up the pearls - hears a disturbance in the hall.
speaker_heading: JEN (O.S.)
dialog: I told you - money first -
speaker_heading: YUPPIE (O.S.)
dialog: Goddammit, you took my wallet!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL OUTSIDE SELINA'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: The Yuppie has Jen against the wall - he reaches back to hit
text: her with an expensive wristwatch-clad arm. But Selina has
text: grabbed his wrist with a powerful grip.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Get out.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: YUPPIE
dialog: She took my wallet!
text: Selina twists his arm behind him in a blinding move.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Now.
text: She releases the Yuppie, who moves off down the stairs.
text: Selina turns to Jen. Who is examining a wallet.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I told you not to try it with the
dialog: assholes, Jen.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: They're all assholes.
dialog: 40.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Okay, the assholes who hit.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: I don't know what he's so upset
dialog: about, he only had sixty bucks in
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Probably the watch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: YOUNG WOMAN
dialog: Watch?
text: Selina opens her hand and gives Jen the Yuppie's Rolex.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SELINA'S BUILDING, OLD TOWN, GOTHAM - LATER
text: Selina exits and hails a cab. Wayne watches her go. Then
text: pulls out. Checking his tracker.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MUSEUM, GOTHAM - LATER
text: Town cars dispense Gotham society in tasteful masquerade.
text: Wayne pulls up to the Valet. Paparazzi line the entrance.
text: Wayne uses his cane to get out of his Lamborghini...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PAPARAZZI
dialog: Another stiff too old to climb out
text: of his sports car.
speaker_heading: PAPARAZZI 2
dialog: No, that's Bruce Wayne! Hey, Wayne,
dialog: where you been hiding?
text: Lenses swing onto Wayne, who pushes a button on his key fob
text: - a pulse. The cameras die. Wayne heads to the door.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm not sure if my assistant put me
dialog: on the guest list -
speaker_heading: GREETER
dialog: Right through here, Mr. Wayne...
dialog: 41.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MUSEUM - CONTINUOUS
text: A lavish ball - the expressively attired dance under falling
text: confetti... Even Bruce Wayne is struck by the ostentation.
text: He spots Selina dancing with a deeply smitten Rich Twit. She
text: wears a small, velvet pair of cat ears. And the pearls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA (O.S)
dialog: Bruce Wayne at a charity ball?
text: Wayne turns to find Miranda Tate, amazed, a small mask her
dialog: only concession to fancy dress.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Miss Tate, isn't it?
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Even before you became a recluse,
dialog: you never came to these things...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: True. Proceeds go to the big fat
dialog: spread, not the cause. It's not
dialog: about charity, it's about feeding
dialog: the ego of whichever society hag
dialog: laid it on.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Actually, this is my party, Mr.
dialog: Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Oh.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: And the proceeds will go where they
dialog: should, because I paid for the big
dialog: fat spread myself.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That's very generous of you.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: You have to invest to restore
dialog: balance to the world. Take our
dialog: clean-energy project...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sometimes the investment doesn't
dialog: pay off. Sorry.
dialog: 42.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: You have a practiced apathy, Mr.
dialog: Wayne. But a man who doesn't care
dialog: about the world doesn't spend half
dialog: his fortune on a plan to save it...
dialog: (Gentle.) And isn't so wounded when
dialog: it fails that he goes into
dialog: hiding...
text: Wayne looks at Miranda. Intrigued.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Have a good evening, Mr. Wayne.
text: Wayne watches Miranda glide away. Then turns to Selina.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Mind if I cut in?
text: Rich Twit turns, annoyed - Wayne hands him his cane. Takes
text: Selina by the waist. She glares at him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You don't seem very happy to see
dialog: me.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You were supposed to be a shut-in.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Felt like some fresh air.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Why didn't you call the police?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I have a powerful friend who deals
dialog: with this kind of thing. (Admires
text: her cat ears.) Brazen costume for a
text: cat burglar.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Yeah? Who are you pretending to be?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: Bruce Wayne, eccentric billionaire.
dialog: Who's your date?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: His wife's in Ibiza. She left her
text: diamonds behind, though. Worried
dialog: they'd get stolen.
dialog: 43.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It's pronounced 'Ibeetha'. You
dialog: wouldn't want these folks realizing
dialog: you're a crook not a social
dialog: climber.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: (flash of anger)
dialog: You think I care what anyone in
dialog: this room thinks about me?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I doubt you care what anyone in
dialog: this room thinks about you.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Don't condescend, Mr. Wayne. You
dialog: don't know a thing about me.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Well, Selina Kyle, I know you came
dialog: here from your walk-up in Old Town
dialog: - modest place for a master jewel
dialog: thief. Which means either you're
dialog: saving for your retirement - or
dialog: you're in deep with the wrong
dialog: people.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You don't get to judge me because
dialog: you were born in the master bedroom
dialog: of Wayne Manor.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Actually, I was born in the Regency
dialog: Room.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I started off doing what I had to.
dialog: Once you've done what you had to
dialog: they'll never let you do what you
dialog: want to.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Start fresh.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: There's no fresh start in today's
dialog: world. Any twelve-year-old with a
dialog: cell phone could find out what you
dialog: did. Everything we do is collated
text: and quantified. Everything sticks.
dialog: We are the sum of our mistakes.
dialog: 44.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Or our achievements.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: The mistakes stick better. Trust
dialog: me.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You think that justifies stealing?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I take what I need to from those
dialog: who have more than enough. I don't
dialog: stand on the shoulders of people
dialog: with less.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Robin Hood?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I'd do more to help someone than
text: most of the people in this room.
dialog: Than you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Maybe you're assuming too much.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Or maybe you're being unrealistic
dialog: about what's really in your pants
dialog: other than your wallet.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ouch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You think all this can last?
text: Wayne glances around at the sumptuous party.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: There's a storm coming, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: You and your friends better batten
text: down the hatches, because when it
dialog: hits you're all gonna wonder how
dialog: you ever thought you could live so
dialog: large and leave so little to the
dialog: rest of us.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sounds like you're looking forward
dialog: to it.
dialog: 45.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I'm adaptable.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: These pearls do look better on you
dialog: then they did in my safe...
dialog: 
text: Wayne rolls her into his shoulder - reaches up to the back
text: of her neck, unclasps the necklace.
dialog: But I still can't let you keep
dialog: them.
dialog: 
text: The pearls slide off her neck into his other hand. Selina
text: looks at him. Angry. Then kisses him, hard, and disappears
text: into the crowd. Wayne's cane reappears.
speaker_heading: RICH TWIT
speaker_heading: (ANNOYED)
dialog: You scared her off.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Not likely.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MUSEUM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Wayne approaches the Valet. Pats down his pockets.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I must have lost my ticket -
speaker_heading: VALET
dialog: Your wife said you were taking a
dialog: cab home, sir.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: My wife?
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. LAMBORGHINI RACING DOWN STREETS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Selina permits herself a little smile as she guns the
dialog: engine.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ROLLS ROYCE - LATER
dialog: 
text: Alfred watches in the mirror as Wayne climbs into the back.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Just you, sir?
dialog: 
text: Wayne gives him a withering glare.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 46.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED (CONT'D)
dialog: Don't worry, Master Wayne. Takes a
dialog: little time to get back into the
dialog: swing of things.
text: Wayne dials his phone.
speaker_heading: FOX (O.S.)
dialog: This is Fox.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Remember those 'unusual requests' I
dialog: used to make?
speaker_heading: FOX (O.S.)
dialog: I knew it!
text: Up front, Alfred listens. Concerned.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - DAY
dialog: 
text: Wayne pushes a button on a hi-tech carbon fiber brace
text: strapped to his good knee - the brace tones. As Wayne starts
text: moving his knee, bending, stretching, Alfred puts down a
dialog: Thermos.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You've got the wrong leg, sir.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You start with the good limb so it
dialog: learns your optimum muscle
dialog: patterns.
text: Wayne swaps the brace to his bad knee. Puts his weight on it
text: - the knee bends, kicks. He sits again. Cautious.
dialog: Now we tighten it up.
dialog: 
text: Wayne gingerly pushes a button - the brace starts to shrink
text: tight to his leg, digging in. Wayne grits his teeth.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It is terribly painful?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (GRITTED TEETH)
dialog: You're welcome to try it, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Happy watching, thank you, sir.
text: Wayne shouts as the brace clicks home. He gets to his feet.
dialog: 47.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Not bad -
text: Wayne executes a perfect roundhouse, knocking out a brick.
dialog: Not bad at all.
dialog: 
text: Alfred picks up the brick. Considers it. Uneasy. He follows
text: Wayne across the bridge to the cube.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne, if you're considering
dialog: going back out there you need to
dialog: hear some rumors surrounding Bane.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm all ears.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: There is a prison. In a more
text: ancient part of the world. A pit.
dialog: Where men are thrown to suffer and
dialog: die. But sometimes, a man rises
dialog: from the darkness. Sometimes...the
text: pit sends something back.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bane.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Born and raised in a hell on earth.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Born in a prison?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No one knows why. Or how he
dialog: escaped. But they know who trained
dialog: him one he did...R's al Ghl. Your
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: mentor.
dialog: 
text: Wayne takes this in. Shocked.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: He plucked Bane from a dark corner
dialog: of the earth and trained him in the
dialog: blackest disciplines of combat,
dialog: deception and endurance. Just like
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bane was a member of the League of
dialog: Shadows.
dialog: 48.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Until he was excommunicated. And a
dialog: man considered too extreme for R's
dialog: A
dialog: al Ghl is not to be trifled with.
speaker_heading: U
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I didn't realize I was known for
text: trifling with criminals.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: That was then. And you can strap up
dialog: your leg and put the mask back on.
dialog: But it won't make you what you
dialog: were.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Which was?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Someone whose anger at death made
dialog: him value all life. Even his own.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If this man is all the things you
dialog: say he is, then this city needs me.
text: The Batsuit emerges from the cube.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes, this city needs Bruce Wayne.
dialog: Your resources, your
dialog: knowledge...not your body. Not your
text: life. That time has passed.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I tried helping as Bruce Wayne,
dialog: Alfred. And I failed.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You can fail as Bruce Wayne. As
dialog: Batman, you can't afford to.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: That's what you're afraid of - that
dialog: if I go back out there I'll fail.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No. I'm afraid that you want to.
text: Wayne looks at Alfred. Then turns to examine the Batsuit.
dialog: 49.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STOCK EXCHANGE - EVENING
text: A frenzy of trading on the packed floor...
text: Two Traders sit on a shoeshine stand in the lobby.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TRADER 2
dialog: You can't short the stock because
text: Bruce Wayne goes to a party -
speaker_heading: TRADER 1
dialog: Wayne coming back is change. Change
dialog: is either good or bad.
speaker_heading: TRADER 2
dialog: On what basis?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TRADER 1
dialog: I flipped a coin.
text: Near the front entrance: a Food Delivery Guy is standing
text: there negotiating with a Trader.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TRADER 3
dialog: No. Rye. I told 'em rye.
text: Trader 3 spots bad news on a screen.
dialog: Alright, I'll take it.
dialog: 
text: He thrusts Food Guy a tip and grabs the bag, distracted...
text: At the rear secure entrance: a Motorcycle Courier enters,
text: wearing his helmet - a Female Security Guard gets in his
dialog: face.
dialog: 
scene_heading: FEMALE SECURITY GUARD
dialog: Rookie! Lose the helmet! (Points at
dialog: a camera.) We need faces for
dialog: cameras.
dialog: 
text: In the rest room: a Janitor mops the floor, shifting out of
text: the way of two Traders who rush in to pee.
text: At the shoeshine stand, Trader 1 waves a bill down at the
text: man shining his shoes without a glance. Shoeshine Man takes
text: the bill, then, as the Traders step off, he reaches into a
text: gym bag and checks an automatic weapon. He clicks the slide
text: home, then hoists the gym bag and heads for the trading
dialog: floor.
text: At the secure entrance: the Courier pulls off his helmet.
text: The Female Security Guard's eyes go wide.
dialog: 50.
dialog: 
text: In the rest room: the Janitor reaches into his bucket and
text: pulls out a machine pistol in a Ziploc bag.
dialog: 
text: Near the front entrance: Food Guy pulls an automatic pistol
text: - clubs Trader 3 with it, pastrami flying. Shoeshine Man
text: moves onto the floor, pulls out his weapon.
text: Under the Courier's helmet - a mask. Bane. He grabs the
text: Female Security Guard and throws her into her colleagues,
text: lashing out in four directions with rapidfire lethality.
text: Shoeshine Man fires into the large trading screens. The
text: floor erupts into a different frenzy - traders hit the deck,
text: screaming. Bane moves onto the floor...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TRADER 1
dialog: This is a stock exchange, there's
dialog: no money you can steal -
text: He dries up as Bane stops. Turns to him...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Why else would you people be here?
text: Bane grabs Trader 1 by the throat and drags him across the
text: floor to an online automated trades terminal... He puts the
text: man's thumb onto the print reader - the screen lights up.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Enter your password. Or I send
dialog: these men to your home.
dialog: 
text: Trader 1, terrified, types in his password. Outside, sirens.
text: Shoeshine man pulls out a USB drive with an antenna - plugs
text: it into the computer - figures race across the screen...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STOCK EXCHANGE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Police vehicles screech into the narrow street -
text: construction vehicles are blocking. Blake argues with a
text: burly Construction Worker.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Move it, now! We've got a
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: CONSTRUCTION WORKER
dialog: Where can I move it?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: That way!
text: Blake points - but SWAT vehicles pile in, blocking.
dialog: 51.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Get in your vehicle and stay there!
text: Foley and the SWAT Commander, Allen, approach the entrance.
text: The Market Security Chief walks up, frantic.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SECURITY CHIEF
dialog: You've gotta get in there!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: This is a hostage situation -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SECURITY CHIEF
dialog: It's a robbery! They've got direct
text: access to the online trading desk.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm not risking my men for your
speaker_heading: MONEY -
speaker_heading: SECURITY CHIEF
dialog: It's not our money, it's
dialog: everyone's!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALLEN
dialog: Really? Mine's in my mattress.
speaker_heading: SECURITY CHIEF
dialog: If you don't shut these guys down,
dialog: the stuffing in that mattress might
dialog: be worth a whole lot less, pal.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Cut the fiber line - shut down the
dialog: cell tower. That'll slow them down.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STOCK EXCHANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Shoeshine Man looks up from the laptop.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SHOESHINE MAN
text: They cut the fiber. Cell's working.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: For now. How much longer does the
dialog: program need?
speaker_heading: SHOESHINE MAN
dialog: Eight minutes.
dialog: 52.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Time to go mobile.
text: Shoeshine Man picks up the laptop, slips it into his pack...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STOCK EXCHANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Allen shouts at his men.
speaker_heading: ALLEN
dialog: Get the barriers up - no more in
dialog: and out on this street!
text: Steel wedge-shaped barriers rise up at the mouth of the
text: street. A Sniper watches the doors through a thermal scope.
text: Six large heat signatures bloom, too big for people...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SNIPER
dialog: I've got something -
text: The door explodes. SWATs duck, six sportbikes race out and
text: leap the ramp-like barricades, sending SWATs scattering.
text: Cops scramble to pull their vehicles out to give chase.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: The bikes weave through traffic, Traders strapped to the
text: back, facing backwards - screaming, ties flying in the wind.
text: A cruiser falls in behind.
speaker_heading: ROOKIE COP
dialog: Shoot the tires!
dialog: 
text: A Veteran Cop sights a shot, but the Traders are in the way.
speaker_heading: VETERAN COP
dialog: No shot!
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STOCK EXCHANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Foley is barking into his radio.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Back off, back off! They've got
dialog: hostages!
dialog: 53.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: The cruiser follows the bike into a large tunnel. A Rookie
text: Cop looks up into his rear-view.
speaker_heading: ROOKIE COP
dialog: What's going on with the lights?
text: The Veteran Cop looks back - streetlights and headlights are
text: dying one after another. The darkness is chasing them - the
text: darkness hits them. Their lights, sirens, and engine die...
dialog: 
text: And, out of the silence, a dark shape roars past -
speaker_heading: VETERAN COP
dialog: It can't be...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ROOKIE COP
dialog: The hell was that?!
speaker_heading: VETERAN COP
dialog: Oh boy. You're in for a show
dialog: tonight, son.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS
text: Food Guy drives the rear bike. He looks back - sees
text: streetlights explode behind him - darkness catching him up.
dialog: 
text: The engine chokes and dies. The Trader jumps off, shouting
text: for the cops. Food Guy turns, pulling his gun. SMASH! - Food
text: Guy is thrown backwards off his bike by a dark wing as
text: BATMAN races by on the Bat-Pod.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STOCK EXCHANGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Foley rushes to Blake's cruiser.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Let's roll, they've spotted the
dialog: Batman!
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The remaining bikes split up as they reach a high overpass.
dialog: 54.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH OVERPASS - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman pulls up, overlooking the intersection - pulls a
text: rifle-shaped device. A tone builds - he aims it at the bike
dialog: and fires.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY OFF-RAMP - CONTINUOUS
text: Janitor's bike sparks and dies. Sirens as Cops move in,
text: Another bike splutters and dies - the Hostage breaks for
dialog: cover.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGH OVERPASS - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman sees the last two bikes disappear beneath an
text: overpass. He holsters his EMP rifle and guns the Bat-Pod.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S CRUISER - CONTINUOUS
text: Foley, in the back, is using the cruiser as a mobile command
dialog: station.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
speaker_heading: (INTO RADIO)
dialog: Call everyone in - every car
dialog: patrol, beat cop, off-duty, too!
dialog: Pull 'em in, close every street!
dialog: Now!
text: Foley looks out at Gotham rushing by.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm gonna do what Gordon never
dialog: could.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What's that?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm gonna take down the Batman.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Sir, what about the armed robbers?
dialog: 
text: Foley ignores him.
dialog: 55.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM - CONTINUOUS
text: All around the city, cops mobilize - cars, vans, choppers...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane pulls up at speed alongside Shoeshine Man. Shoeshine
text: Man glances inside his pack - signals '2'. Bane turns, sees
text: darkness approaching, reaches back and grabs his Hostage,
text: lifting him onto the back of Shoeshine Man's bike. Bane
text: peels off - Batman stays on Shoeshine Man.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CHOPPER - CONTINUOUS
text: A Spotter watches Bane peel off, hits the radio.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SPOTTER
speaker_heading: (INTO RADIO)
text: One bike's pulled off, no hostage -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S CRUISER - CONTINUOUS
text: Foley listens to the radio, hungry -
speaker_heading: SPOTTER
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: Should we pursue?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Negative! Stay on the Batman!
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: But he's getting away!
speaker_heading: FOLEY
speaker_heading: (ANNOYED)
dialog: Who do you want to catch? Some
dialog: robber, or the son-of-a-bitch who
dialog: killed Harvey Dent?
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Coverage of the pursuit blares from all the TVs, as Daggett
text: and Stryver watch. Tense.
speaker_heading: TV ANNOUNCER
dialog: People aren't saying much -
dialog: frankly, they're too busy - but all
dialog: signs suggest that what we're
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 56.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TV ANNOUNCER (cont'd)
text: seeing is, in fact, the return of
dialog: the Batman...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. INNER OFFICE, DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Moving in on a shadow, crouched in front of Daggett's safe,
text: working the dial... The shadow slides up a pair of goggles
text: onto the top of its head creating the silhouette of cat
text: ears. It is Catwoman. She turns to the TV, watching the
dialog: pursuit.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Well, what do you know?
text: Catwoman opens the safe. Nothing inside. She frowns.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane slips between two cruisers who tear after the Batman.
text: He jumps up onto a concrete barrier, then down to the mouth
text: of an outflow pipe. He glances at the entire Gotham Police
text: Department descending on one man. Disappears into the pipe.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Shoeshine Man glances into his pack - the program beeps,
text: finished. He looks back to see the Bat-Pod racing at him,
text: ducks as it comes alongside...riderless. Shoeshine Man looks
text: up, confused. WHUMP! His hostage is ripped off the bike by a
text: low-flying dark shape.
dialog: 
text: Shoeshine Man lays down the bike in a shower of sparks,
text: rolls off dazed. Batman grabs him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: WHAT WERE YOU STEALING?!
dialog: 
text: Shoeshine Man stares. Unafraid. Batman rips the computer
text: from his pack. The screen reads:
speaker_heading: APPLICATION COMPLETE
dialog: 
text: Blinding light and noise as police choppers descend - sirens
text: everywhere. Batman grabs the USB drive from the laptop. He
text: jumps on the Bat-Pod - pauses, taking in the sight of
text: thousands of police, cars, choppers, dogs, closing in.
dialog: 57.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: POLICE VOICE
speaker_heading: (OVER LOUDSPEAKER)
text: STEP AWAY FROM THE BIKE!
text: Batman looks at the line of stopped traffic. An empty car
text: transporter is below the on-ramp... Batman fires the cannons
text: at the transporter, the near ramp crashes down, and Batman
text: roars towards it - mounts it and jumps onto the on-ramp...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Daggett angrily grabs some ice cubes for his drink.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: After eight years he has to pick
dialog: tonight...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
text: He's drawing the cops off Bane...
text: Daggett watches, intrigued.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S CRUISER - CONTINUOUS
text: Foley shouts down the phone.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: How did you let him go?!
speaker_heading: COP
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: He's got a lot of firepower -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: And you don't?! We're not letting
dialog: one nut with a bad attitude and
dialog: some fancy gadgets run this town
dialog: down, you hear me?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: COP
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: He's heading back downtown...
speaker_heading: FOLEY
speaker_heading: (EXCITED)
dialog: Then he's as dumb as he dresses -
dialog: close it down, gentlemen!
dialog: 58.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Thousands of police jockey to pursue the Batman as he races
text: back into the downtown area.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: The Bat-Pod tears along, pursued by a phalanx of cruisers,
text: choppers overhead. More cops appear at the far end of the
text: boulevard.
dialog: 
text: The Bat-Pod executes a ninety-degree turn, flipping over as
text: it goes, then guns into the darkness of a large blind alley.
text: Cruisers and choppers block the mouth of the alley. Blake
text: arrives last, his cruiser sealing the bottleneck. Foley
text: swaggers out.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Like a rat in a trap, gentlemen...
text: Foley reaches for a loudhailer. VARRROOOOM!! A noise from
dialog: the alley that none of the cops have heard before...
speaker_heading: VETERAN COP
dialog: You might have the wrong animal
dialog: there, sir -
dialog: 
text: Spotlights smash on and a massive dark cyclone roars out of
text: the alley, spinning the choppers sideways, dual rotor
text: downdraft forcing all the cops to the ground.
text: The Bat, now black, thunders up and over the entire Gotham
text: PD. Blake slides up to Foley. Dry.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Are you sure that was him?
text: Foley looks at Blake. Thrusts the loudhailer at him.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon, still hooked up to machines, watches TV. He smiles.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANNOUNCER
speaker_heading: (ON TV)
dialog: Police are keeping quiet about the
dialog: prospect of a return by the Batman,
dialog: but eyewitness accounts seem the
dialog: clearly suggests the type of...
dialog: 59.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT
text: Daggett watches the TV coverage, concerned. Stryver enters.
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Bane says the Batman interfered,
dialog: but the task was accomplished.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: What about the men they arrested?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: He says, and I quote, they would
dialog: die before talking.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
speaker_heading: (GRINS)
dialog: Where does he find these guys?
text: Daggett gets to his feet, relieved, moves to his inner
dialog: office.
dialog: Open the champagne...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. INNER OFFICE, DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
text: Daggett comes through the door, calling back.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: And can we get some girls in here?
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Careful what you wish for.
text: Catwoman grabs him, throws him across the room. His back
text: slams against the wall - he draws a gun, but - WHACK! -
text: Catwoman pins his wrist to the wall at shoulder height using
text: the high heel of her boot. He whimpers as she leans in.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Cat got your tongue?
text: She plucks the gun from his trembling hand.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: You dumb bitch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Nobody ever accused me of being
dialog: dumb.
dialog: 60.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Dumb to show up here tonight.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I want what you owe me -
dialog: 
text: Click - Stryver has a gun to her head.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: 'I want' never gets...
dialog: 
text: Stryver looks appreciatively at Catwoman as she lowers her
dialog: leg...
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Nice outfit...those heels make it
dialog: tough to walk?
dialog: 
text: Catwoman digs her stiletto into his calf, hard. He screams.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I don't know, do they?
dialog: 
text: Catwoman spins, disarms Stryver, grabs Daggett.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: So where is it?
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Where's what?
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: The program. The 'Clean Slate'.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Oh, yeah - the ultimate tool for a
dialog: master thief with a record. I don't
dialog: have it.
text: The Bodyguard bursts in, gun drawn. Catwoman, holding
text: Daggett, spins, kicking the window with the point of her
text: heel. The glass shatters. She pulls Daggett through the
text: window. He screams - they drop...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WINDOW-CLEANING PLATFORM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: ...ten feet onto the window-cleaning platform. Catwoman uses
text: her bladed heel to cut a rope - the platform plunges down
text: the side of the building.
dialog: 61.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FLAT ROOF - MOMENTS LATER
text: Catwoman dumps Daggett onto the roof, towering over him.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Where is it?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: The 'Clean Slate'? Type in a name
dialog: and date of birth and within a
dialog: couple hours that person ceases to
dialog: exist in any database? Little too
dialog: good to be true.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: You're lying. Rykin Data took it to
dialog: prototype stage -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: That's why I bought them. But they
dialog: had nothing. It was a gangland
dialog: myth.
dialog: 
text: Catwoman leans back from Daggett, taking this in... Shapes
text: drop onto the rooftop. Emerge from fire exits. They're not
text: Daggett's bodyguards, these are Bane's men... Catwoman holds
text: Daggett by the throat, threatening him.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Stay back!
text: They continue to approach. One of them screws a silencer
text: onto his gun.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I'm not bluffing!
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: They know...
dialog: 
text: All eyes search for the source of the voice. Catwoman spots
text: it - a dark shape, crouched on the roof above: Batman.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: They just don't care.
dialog: 
text: As the Mercenary with the silencer looks up, Catwoman leaps
text: forward, grabs his gun. Batman drops into the middle of the
text: fray, fighting back Mercenaries at Catwoman's back - she
text: fires at one, clipping him, he drops. She spins aiming at
text: another's head - Batman yanks her arm down, forcing her to
text: miss the Mercenary. Batman takes him out with a kick.
dialog: 62.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: You've got to be kidding.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No guns. No killing.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Where's the fun in that?
text: As more mercenaries come out onto the roof, Batman runs for
text: the far edge.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Come on!
text: Catwoman follows, confused, as Batman leaps off the roof.
text: She gets to the edge, pauses to look down into the alley -
text: sees the black angular roof of the Bat, cockpit open.
text: Shots impact around her - she leaps, landing hard, but
text: gracefully on the back of the vehicle, slides into the
text: cockpit. As the engines thunder into life, and the canopy
text: hisses shut, taking bullets from above.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: My mother warned me about getting
dialog: into cars with strange men -
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This isn't a car.
text: Catwoman flinches as the Bat thunders into the sky,
text: downdraft forcing the Mercenaries down onto the roof, all
text: but one, who walks slowly across the roof, strong against
text: the wind...Bane. He watches the Bat roar off into the night.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP, SKYSCRAPER, GOTHAM - MOMENTS LATER
text: The Bat lands - the canopy opens. Catwoman jumps out.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: See you around -
text: Batman steps down after her.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You're welcome.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I had it under control.
dialog: 63.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Those weren't street thugs - they
dialog: were trained killers. I saved your
dialog: life. In return I need to know what
dialog: you did with Bruce Wayne's
dialog: fingerprints.
text: Catwoman looks at him. Considering.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Wayne wasn't kidding about a
dialog: 'powerful friend'. I sold his
dialog: prints to Daggett. For something
dialog: that doesn't even exist.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I doubt many people get the better
dialog: of you.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Hey, when a girl's desperate...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What were they going to do with
dialog: them?
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I don't know. But Daggett seemed
dialog: pretty interested in that mess at
dialog: the stock market.
text: Batman considers this. A police chopper sweeps past,
text: searching. Batman turns to it. Then turns back.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Miss Kyle -?
text: But she is gone.
dialog: So that's what that feels like.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
text: Alfred is studying security camera footage of Bane killing
text: at the stock exchange. A roar builds - the waterfall glows
text: brighter until...SMASH! The Bat breaches, downdraft spraying
text: water. Two cubes rise - the Bat lands, Batman jumps out.
text: Alfred brushes water off his suit.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Very inconspicuous. Shall I tell
dialog: the neighbors you got yourself a
dialog: new leaf-blower?
dialog: 64.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: We bought all the neighbors.
text: Alfred takes the cowl from him, then the cape, as they walk.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: From the look of the television
dialog: coverage, you seem to have your
dialog: taste for wanton destruction back.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (pulls out USB drive)
dialog: I retrieved this.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Shouldn't the police be gathering
dialog: the evidence?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: They don't have the tools to
dialog: analyze it.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: They would if you gave them to them
dialog: -
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: One man's tool is another man's
dialog: weapon.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: In your mind, perhaps. But there
dialog: aren't many things you couldn't
text: turn into a weapon.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Alfred. Enough. The police weren't
dialog: getting it done -
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps they would've if you
dialog: haven't made a sideshow of
dialog: yourself.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Perhaps you're upset you were
dialog: wrong.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Wrong?
dialog: 65.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You thought I didn't have it in me.
text: Alfred looks at him. Puts down the cape and cowl.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You don't. You lead a bloated
text: police force on a merry chase with
dialog: some fancy new toys from Fox. What
dialog: about when you come up against him.
dialog: What then?
dialog: 
text: Alfred points to the monitor - Wayne sees Bane killing...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'll fight harder, I always have.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: When you had something to fight
dialog: for. What are you fighting for now?
dialog: Not your life.
text: Wayne moves to switch off the monitor. Alfred grabs his
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Take a good look. At his speed, his
dialog: ferocity, His training. I see the
dialog: power of belief. Of the fanatic. I
dialog: see the League of Shadows
text: resurgent.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You said he was excommunicated.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: By R's al Ghl. Who leads them
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: now?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: R's al Ghl was the League of
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: Shadows. And I beat him. Bane's
dialog: just a mercenary, and we have to
dialog: find out what he's up to.
text: Wayne plugs the USB in, hits keys. Text scrolls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Trades of some kind. Coded...
text: The screen blanks, a thumb print appears.
dialog: 66.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Is that -?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: Mine. Courtesy of Selina Kyle.
dialog: 
text: Wayne pulls out the USB, rises.
dialog: Get this to Fox - he can crack the
dialog: code and tell us what trades they
dialog: were executing.
dialog: 
text: Alfred looks at Wayne. Takes the USB.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HALL, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS (NIGHT)
text: As Wayne hits the bottom of the stairs, Alfred calls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'll get this to Fox. But no more.
text: Wayne hears his tone of voice. Turns to him.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I've sewn you up and set your
dialog: bones...but I won't bury you. I've
dialog: buried enough members of the Wayne
dialog: family.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You'd abandon me?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You see only one end to your story.
dialog: Leaving is all I have to make you
dialog: understand: you aren't Batman
dialog: anymore - you have to find another
dialog: way. You used to talk about
dialog: finishing. About life beyond that
dialog: awful cave -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Rachel died knowing we'd decided to
dialog: be together. That was my life
dialog: beyond this cave and I can't just
text: move on. She didn't. She couldn't.
dialog: 
text: Alfred considers this. Looks away.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What if he had? What if she wasn't
dialog: intending to make a life with you?
dialog: 67.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: She was, I can't change that -
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What if, before she died, she'd
dialog: written a letter? Explaining that
dialog: she'd chosen Harvey Dent over you?
text: Wayne watches, confused, as the old man prepares to say -
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: And what if, to spare you
dialog: pain...I'd burned that letter?
text: Wayne stares at Alfred, shocked.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why would you say such a thing?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Because I have to make you
dialog: understand.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You're lying.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Because you are as precious to me
dialog: as you were to your own mother and
dialog: father and I swore to them that I
dialog: would protect you and I haven't.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You're lying!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I've never lied to you. Except when
dialog: I burned Rachel's letter.
text: Wayne turns on the old man, furious.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How dare you use Rachel to stop me!
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm using the truth, Master Wayne.
dialog: Maybe it's time we all stopped
text: trying to outsmart the truth and
dialog: just let it have its day. I'm
dialog: sorry.
dialog: 68.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Sorry?! You expect to destroy my
dialog: world, then shake hands?!
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No. I know what this means -
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What does it mean, Alfred?!
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It means your hatred. It means
dialog: losing the person I've cared for
dialog: ever since I heard his first cries
dialog: echo through this house. But it
dialog: might also mean saving your life.
dialog: And that is more important.
dialog: 
text: Wayne looks at Alfred. Furious. Summons the worst thing to
text: say and says it quietly and calmly.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Goodbye, Alfred.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
speaker_heading: (QUIET)
dialog: Goodbye, Bruce.
text: Wayne mounts the stairs...Alfred watches him go. Turns.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MASTER BEDROOM, WAYNE MANOR - MORNING
text: Wayne is woken by the doorbell.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STAIRCASE, WAYNE MANOR - MOMENTS LATER
text: As Wayne moves through the empty house, tying his dressing
text: gown, he can't resist one tentative.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Alfred?
text: But Alfred is gone.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FRONT HALL, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
text: Wayne opens the front door the find Fox. Fox is surprised.
dialog: 69.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Answering your own door?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Yes. Could you decode the trades on
dialog: that drive?
dialog: 
text: Fox hands Wayne a newspaper - the main headline:
text: BATMAN BACK TO FOIL OR MASTERMIND STOCK RAID...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I didn't need to. Page three.
text: Wayne turns the page:
text: WAYNE DOUBLES DOWN - AND LOSES...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: It seems you made a series of large
dialog: put options on the futures
text: exchange. Verified by thumb print.
dialog: The options expired at midnight
dialog: last night.
text: Wayne looks up from the newspaper, reeling.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Long term we may be able to prove
dialog: fraud, but for now...you're
text: completely broke. And Wayne
text: Enterprises is about to fall into
text: the hands of John Daggett.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: The weapons - we can't let Daggett
dialog: get his hands on Applied Sciences -
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Applied Sciences is shut up tight,
dialog: and off the books. The energy
dialog: project is a different story.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Miranda Tate. We need to convince
dialog: the board to get behind her. Let's
dialog: show her the reactor -
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We're meeting her there in
dialog: thirty-five minutes. You better get
dialog: dressed.
dialog: 70.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES RECYCLING PLANT - DAY
text: A scrapyard on the Gotham river. Across the water, the
text: towers of Gotham. Lucius leads Miranda from her car.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: You brought me out here to show me
dialog: a rubbish dump, Mr. Fox?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Bear with me, Miss Tate.
text: They arrive at a Portakabin and enter.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PORTAKABIN - CONTINUOUS
text: Miranda looks around the derelict office. Fox smiles at her.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Keep your hands and feet inside the
dialog: car at all times.
text: He hits a button and the floor descends, Miranda is shocked
text: as the office becomes an elevator into -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR, FUSION REACTOR - CONTINUOUS
text: They descend diagonally into a massive concrete tunnel...
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: This is it, isn't it?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
text: The reactor is beneath the river so
dialog: that it could be instantly flooded
text: in an event of a security breach.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Is Bruce Wayne really that
dialog: paranoid?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'm gonna plead the fifth on that
dialog: one.
text: Miranda marvels as they step off the elevator. She spots a
text: figure deep within: Bruce Wayne.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I thought you might like to see
dialog: what your investment built.
dialog: 71.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: No radiation, no fossil fuels.
dialog: Free, clean energy for an entire
dialog: city.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If it worked. It doesn't.
text: Wayne leads Miranda to the core. Two perpendicular rings of
text: electromagnets suspend a bowling-ball-sized mass of metal.
text: Wayne hits buttons - the ball glows, then dies to cold.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Ignition, yes. But no chain
dialog: reaction.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: You've built a lot of security
text: around a damp squib.
dialog: Nothing.
dialog: About three years ago a Russian
dialog: scientist published a paper on
dialog: weaponized fusion reactions. One
dialog: week later your reactor started
dialog: developing problems... (Looks at
dialog: Wayne.) I think this machine works.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Miranda, if it were operational,
dialog: the danger to Gotham would be too
dialog: great.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Would it make you feel better to
dialog: know that the Russian scientist
dialog: died in a plane crash six months
dialog: ago?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Someone else will work out what Dr.
dialog: Pavel did. Someone else will figure
dialog: out how to turn this power source
dialog: into a nuclear weapon. I need you
dialog: to take control of Wayne
dialog: Enterprises and this reactor.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: And to do what with it?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Nothing. Until we can find a way to
dialog: guarantee its safety.
dialog: 72.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: And if we can't?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Decommission it. Flood it.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Destroy the world's best chance for
dialog: a sustainable future?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: If the world's not ready. Yes.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Bruce, if you want to save the
dialog: world you have to start trusting
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm trusting you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Doesn't count. You have no choice.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I could've flooded this chamber any
dialog: time in the last three years. I'm
dialog: choosing to trust you, Miranda, and
dialog: that's not the easiest thing for
dialog: me. Please.
text: His eyes are genuine. Pleading. Miranda nods.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: We have a board meeting to get to.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BOARDROOM, WAYNE ENTERPRISES - DAY
dialog: 
text: The Board Members, including Daggett and Miranda, take their
text: seats. Fox at one end of the table, Wayne at the other.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: I'd like to point out that we have
dialog: a non-board member here. Highly
dialog: irregular, even if it is his family
text: name above the door...
text: All eyes go to Wayne. An older member of the board pipes up.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FREDERICKS
dialog: Bruce Wayne's family built this
speaker_heading: COMPANY -
dialog: 73.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BOARD MEMBER 2
dialog: And he himself has run it -
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Into the ground, sir. Anybody
dialog: disagree? Check the value of your
text: shares this morning. Gambling on
dialog: crazy futures didn't just lose Mr.
dialog: Wayne his seat, it's lost us all a
dialog: lot of money. He needs to leave.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I'm afraid he has a point, Mr.
dialog: Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I understand. Ladies and gentlemen.
dialog: 
text: Wayne glances at Miranda who nods at him. Wayne leaves.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Let's get down to business.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Right away.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, WAYNE ENTERPRISES - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Wayne exits the building. There is an angry mob of
text: Shareholders and a pack of hungry Reporters.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: Wayne, how's it feel to be one of
dialog: the people?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: COMPANY VALET
dialog: I'm sorry, sir, they had paperwork
dialog: -
dialog: 
text: Wayne looks over to see his Lamborghini being towed.
speaker_heading: BLAKE (O.S.)
dialog: Looks like you need a lift.
text: Wayne turns to see Blake standing by his patrol car. Nods.
dialog: 74.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DAGGETT'S PENTHOUSE - DAY
text: Daggett bursts in, furious. Stryver tries to placate him.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: How the hell did Miranda Tate get
text: the inside track on the Wayne
dialog: board?! Was she meeting with Wayne?
dialog: Was she sleeping with Wayne?
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Not that we know of -
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Clearly you don't 'know of'
dialog: anything, do you?! Where's Bane?!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: We told him it was urgent -
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: Then where is the masked -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (O.S.)
dialog: Speak of the devil...
text: Daggett turns. Bane is already there.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: ...and he shall appear.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: What the hell's going on?
speaker_heading: BANE
text: The plan is proceeding as expected.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: You see me running Wayne
dialog: Enterprises?! (Moves towards Bane.)
dialog: Your stock exchange hit didn't
dialog: work, friend. And now you've got my
dialog: construction crews working all
dialog: hours around the city? How's that
dialog: supposed to help my company absorb
dialog: Wayne's?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
speaker_heading: (TO STRYVER)
dialog: Leave us.
dialog: 75.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: You stay right there! I'm in
dialog: charge!
text: Bane places a gentle hand on Daggett's shoulder.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Do you feel in charge?
text: Daggett is taken aback. Stryver leaves.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: I've paid you a small fortune -
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: And that gives you power over me?
dialog: 
text: Daggett considers the heavy hand on his shoulder. Nervous.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: What is this?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Your money and infrastructure have
dialog: been important. Till now.
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: What are you?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
text: Gotham's reckoning. Come to end the
dialog: borrowed time you've all been
dialog: living on...
dialog: 
text: Bane gently takes the terrified Daggett's head in his
dialog: hands...
speaker_heading: DAGGETT
dialog: You are true evil...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I am necessary evil.
text: Stryver, on the steps outside the living room, flinches.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SCENE OMITTED
dialog: 76.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREETS - MOMENTS LATER
text: Wayne stares out the window. Blake glances across.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: When you began...why the mask?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To protect the people closest to
dialog: me.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You're a loner with no family.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: There are always people you care
dialog: about. You just don't realize how
dialog: much until they're gone. (Collects
dialog: himself.) The idea was to be a
dialog: symbol. Batman could be anybody,
dialog: that was the point.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It was damn good to see him back.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Not everybody agrees.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: They'll figure it out in the end.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Got anything on Bane's whereabouts?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Yeah, I've got five hundred pages
text: of tunnel records and a flashlight.
dialog: I could use some help.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (THINKS)
dialog: You know what? Drop me in Old
dialog: Town...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SELINA'S BUILDING, OLD TOWN, GOTHAM - DAY
dialog: 
text: Blake drops Wayne off.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Don't wait. I'll get a cab.
dialog: 77.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You got money?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (smiles, sheepish)
dialog: Actually, no.
text: Blake hands him some bills, watches him cross the street.
text: The radio squawks. Blake reacts - drives off.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Selina is packing a bag. She hears voices in the stairwell.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: JEN (O.S.)
dialog: I told you, money first.
speaker_heading: WAYNE (O.S.)
dialog: I don't think so.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL OUTSIDE SELINA'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Selina finds Wayne standing there with Jen.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: He's not a mark.
text: Jen looks at Selina. At Wayne.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: And he doesn't have a cent to his
dialog: name, anyway.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Wayne looks at the cramped space. Selina shifts,
dialog: embarrassed.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Yeah, it's not much. (Smiles.) But
dialog: it's more that you've got right
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Actually, they're letting me keep
dialog: the house.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
speaker_heading: (SHAKES HEAD)
dialog: The rich don't even go broke same
dialog: as the rest of us, huh?
dialog: 78.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: (spots her bag)
dialog: Vacation?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Let's just say that I've incurred
dialog: the wrath of some people less
dialog: susceptible to my charms than you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: My powerful friend hopes to change
dialog: your mind about leaving.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: And how would he do that?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: By giving you what you want.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It doesn't exist.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: He says it does. He wants to meet.
dialog: Tonight.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Why?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: He needs to find Bane. He thinks
dialog: you'd know how.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Tell him I'll think about it.
text: Wayne nods, starts to leave.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Mr. Wayne? I'm sorry they took all
dialog: your money.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No, you're not.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
text: Blake moves through the hospital corridor, looking for -
dialog: 79.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake enters. Gordon is sitting up in bed, talking to Foley.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Can we help you, officer?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: John Daggett's body was found in a
dialog: dumpster an hour ago. I thought you
dialog: might like to know.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Because Daggett's name is all over
dialog: the permits I pulled to map the
text: tunnels under Gotham.
text: Blake hands Gordon a stack of files. Foley glares at Blake.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: MTA maintenance, sewer
dialog: construction...
speaker_heading: GORDON
speaker_heading: (TO FOLEY)
dialog: Where did you get to with the
dialog: tunnel searches?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
speaker_heading: (TO BLAKE)
dialog: Remind me to tell the detail to
dialog: keep hotheads out. (To Gordon.)
dialog: We've had teams down there, but
dialog: it's a huge network -
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Get more men, work a grid. I want
dialog: him found.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Yeah, yeah - the masked man. We're
text: on it.
dialog: 
text: Gordon eyes the files hungrily - glances up at Blake.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: This is good work. Lose the uniform
dialog: - you're working for me now. We
dialog: could use some hotter heads around
dialog: here.
dialog: 80.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: This could just be a coincidence.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You're a detective now, son, you're
dialog: not allowed to believe in
dialog: coincidence anymore.
text: Blake tries to conceal his excitement from Foley.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - EVENING (END OF DAY)
text: Wayne, covering his head with a newspaper, hurries up the
text: driveway in the rain. Steps into the alcove. Hits the bell.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA (O.S)
text: Nobody's answering.
text: Wayne turns to find Miranda there.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No. I'm on my own now.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Do you have keys?
text: Wayne looks a little helpless all of a sudden.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Never needed them...
text: She takes his hand.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Let's find a window.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. GREAT ROOM, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS (END OF DAY)
text: They force the French windows - enter, brushing off the
dialog: rain.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Fox worked the board like you've
dialog: never seen - I'm in, Daggett's out
text: and he's not happy.
text: Wayne sets down the newspaper:
text: FROM BILLIONAIRE TO BUM
dialog: 81.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Hope you don't like me for your
dialog: money.
text: Miranda kicks off her shoes. Glances at the paper.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
text: Suffering builds character.
text: Then at a photo of Wayne's parents.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: I'll take care of your parents'
dialog: legacy, Bruce.
text: Miranda picks up a photo of Rachel.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Who's this?
text: Wayne looks at her. Can't find words...
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Where's Alfred?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: He left. Taking everything.
text: Miranda puts the photo down. Kisses him. Passionately. Then
text: again. He kisses back. Suddenly the lights go out.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: What's that?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (SHEEPISH)
dialog: I think my power's been shut off.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SAME - LATER (NIGHT)
dialog: 
text: Wayne watches as Miranda tends to a roaring fire.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You're pretty good at that.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: When I was a child we had almost
dialog: nothing. But on the nights we had a
dialog: fire, we felt very rich indeed.
text: She returns to him, pulling a blanket around both of them.
dialog: 82.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I assumed your family was wealthy.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Not always. Not when I was young.
dialog: 
text: He traces a scar on her shoulder.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: An old mistake.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I've made a few myself.
text: She turns to him, tracing the scars across his chest.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: More than a few... (Smiles.) We
dialog: could leave. Tonight. Take my
dialog: plane. Go anywhere we wanted.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Someday perhaps. Not tonight.
text: She pulls him close. He kisses her. They fold into each
text: other, the warm heart at the center of a vast, cold room.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. GREAT ROOM, WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: Miranda is sleeping, wrapped in the blanket. Wayne studies
text: her for a moment, then slips out...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - MOMENTS LATER
text: Wayne moves to the Batsuit. Picks up the cowl.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES ABOVE GOTHAM - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: The Bat roars towards downtown. Batman kills the lights and
text: main engines - the Bat quietly autorotates into the canyons.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MIA TUNNEL - LATER
dialog: 
text: Catwoman on a wall, watching trains go by. She senses...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Don't be shy.
dialog: 
text: ...Batman is there.
dialog: 83.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Wayne says you can get me the
dialog: 'Clean Slate'.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That depends.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: On what?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: On what you want it for. I acquired
dialog: it to keep it out of the wrong
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Still don't trust me, huh? How can
dialog: we change that?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Start by taking me to Bane.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
speaker_heading: (SHRUGS)
dialog: You asked.
text: Catwoman jumps down. Batman follows. Catwoman leads him down
text: into a service tunnel...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SERVICE TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Catwoman speaks over her shoulder as she walks.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
text: From here, Bane's men patrol the
dialog: tunnels...and they are not your
dialog: average brawlers.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Neither am I.
text: Catwoman swings into a -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWER TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: A Mercenary patrols. Catwoman comes up behind.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: He's behind you.
dialog: 84.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MERCENARY
speaker_heading: (SPINS)
dialog: Who?
text: Batman hangs upside down behind him.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Me.
text: Darkness smashes onto the Mercenary. Gunfire in the tunnel.
text: Catwoman races along, pursued by a Mercenary. He is yanked
text: off his feet by darkness - he screams...
text: Batman picks off more and more Mercenaries. Screams echo...
text: Batman follows Catwoman through the dark tunnel.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Just a little further.
text: A grate slams down, separating them - the lights come on. He
text: is deep inside.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BANE'S LAIR, SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Mercenaries look down on him from above. Catwoman turns.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I had to find a way to stop them
dialog: trying to kill me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You've made a serious mistake.
speaker_heading: BANE (O.S.)
dialog: Not as serious as yours, I fear.
text: Batman turns. Bane emerges from behind the waterfalls.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Bane.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Let's not stand on ceremony here,
dialog: Mr. Wayne.
dialog: 
text: Catwoman hears the name. Less sure of what she's done.
text: Batman moves at Bane - strikes powerful blows - Bane catches
text: his fist.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Peace has cost you strength.
dialog: Victory has defeated you.
dialog: 85.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Bane SMASHES Batman back - kicks him off the catwalk -
text: Batman drops, uses his cape to land. Bane climbs down on a
text: chain - his men watch in disciplined silence - Batman hurls
text: flashbangs at Bane, who doesn't flinch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Theatricality and deception are
dialog: powerful agents...to the
text: uninitiated.
text: Batman lashes out at Bane - Bane counters - they separate.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: But we are initiated, aren't we,
dialog: Bruce? The League of Shadows. And
dialog: you betrayed us...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Us? You were excommunicated. From a
text: gang of psychopaths.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Now I am the League of Shadows,
dialog: here to fulfill R's al Ghl's
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: destiny...
text: Batman hurls himself at Bane, throwing him into the
text: waterfall, where he smashes his fists and gauntlets into
text: Bane's mask again and again, water cascading over them.
dialog: 
text: Bane is not moving. Just taking the blows. Batman pauses.
text: Bane's arms SHOOT OUT, SMASHING Batman aside - Bane RISES...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You fight like a younger man.
text: Nothing held back. No reserves.
dialog: Admirable. But mistaken.
text: Batman hits a switch on his belt - the lights go out - Bane
text: turns slowly addressing all the shadows at once.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You think darkness is your ally.
dialog: But you merely adopted the dark. I
dialog: was born in it. Formed by it...
dialog: 
text: In the shadows, Batman circles, looking to strike...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I didn't see the light until I was
dialog: already a man. And by then it was
dialog: nothing to me but blinding...
dialog: 86.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Bane lunges backwards into the darkness - Batman's throat in
text: his grasp.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: The shadows betray you, because
dialog: they belong to me...
dialog: 
text: Bane SMASHES him into the ground, POUNDING, pounding,
text: pounding the hard cowl with his bare fists until it CRACKS.
text: Bane RISES from Batman, gestures to the ceiling of the
text: chamber - explosive charges have been drilled into holes...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I will show you where I've made my
dialog: home while preparing to bring
dialog: justice. Then...I will break you.
dialog: 
text: A Mercenary tosses Bane a detonator - Batman watches through
text: cracked cowl - Bane hits the detonator - explosions BURST
text: over his head as the ceiling CRUMBLES revealing:
text: Applied Sciences - Bane has dropped the bottom out of Fox's
text: weapons store...a camouflage Tumbler rests in the rubble.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Your precious armory. Gratefully
dialog: accepted. We will need it.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. APPLIED SCIENCES - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Mercenaries race through the stacks of equipment...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BANE'S LAIR, SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman climbs to his feet, swaying. Bane approaches.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I wondered which would break first
dialog: - your spirit...
dialog: 
text: Batman SWINGS at him - misses - Bane GRABS him, lifts him
speaker_heading: HIGH.
dialog: ...or your body.
text: Bane brings Batman down onto his knee, BREAKING his back
text: with a horrific CRACK.
dialog: 87.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: In the shadows, Catwoman looks on. Shocked. Bane crouches to
text: pull the broken cowl off the broken Wayne. Mercenaries lift
text: Wayne's body and carry him off... Bane stares into the
text: hollow eyes of his trophy...
dialog: 
text: Catwoman slinks back into the shadows, and we -
text: FADE TO BLACK.
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: Blake's cruiser pulls up. He noses up to the windows.
dialog: Nothing.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SELINA'S BUILDING, OLD TOWN, GOTHAM - DAY
text: Blake sits in his cruiser. Selina exits, wide-brimmed hat,
text: bags. Blake recognizes her. She hails a cab.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (INTO RADIO)
dialog: Get Commissioner Gordon. Tell him
dialog: I've got a line on the
dialog: Congressman's kidnapping.
dialog: 
text: Blake pulls out to follow.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TERMINAL, GOTHAM INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY
text: Selina moves through the terminal. She clocks a Uniform Cop
text: staring at her - ducks down a service hallway.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SERVICE HALLWAY, AIRPORT - CONTINUOUS
text: The Uniform rounds the corner to find Selina applying
dialog: make-up.
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Excuse me, Miss. I need to see your
dialog: ticket and identification, please.
dialog: 
text: Selina, surprised, fumbles with her purse.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Would you mind?
dialog: 88.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: She hands the Uniform her hat - punches him through the
text: brim, stuffs him in a closet - plants her mangled hat on his
dialog: head.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. JETWAY, AIRPORT - MOMENTS LATER
text: Selina makes her way down the jetway - spots Security at the
text: far end - turns - Blake smiles at her. Badge in hand.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. INTERROGATION ROOM, AIRPORT - DAY
text: Selina, now in cuffs, looks up as Blake walks in.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I showed your picture to the
dialog: Congressman and guess what?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Don't tell me, still in love?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: Head over heels. Pressing charges,
dialog: though.
text: Blake lays a police file down with a thump.
dialog: You've made some mistakes, Ms.
dialog: Kyle.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Girl's gonna eat.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You have an appetite. Why run? You
dialog: can't hide from us with this
dialog: record.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Maybe it's not you I'm running
dialog: from.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Who then? Bane? What do you know
dialog: about him?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
speaker_heading: (QUIET)
dialog: That you should be as afraid of him
dialog: as I am.
dialog: 89.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: We can offer you protection...
text: Selina looks at him with contempt. Blake shrugs, switches
text: off the tape, moves to the door.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: When I spotted you, I was looking
dialog: for a friend...Bruce Wayne.
text: Selina turns to look at Blake. His eyes plead with her.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Did they kill him?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I'm not sure.
dialog: 
dialog: And we -
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
text: BLACK SCREEN. Sounds: screaming, laughing, CRYING. Sights:
text: LIGHT, bodies FALLING, a DARK SKULL... And we are -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL - DAWN
text: Wayne opens his eyes. Unshaven. Filthy. Someone else is in
text: the cell - Wayne cannot move to look - even the attempt is
text: painful...the skull drifts into his sight. Bane. Squatting
text: at Wayne's bedside, muscled shoulders curving into his mask.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why didn't you just kill me?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You don't fear death. You welcome
dialog: it. Your punishment is to be more
dialog: severe.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (SCATHING)
dialog: You're a torturer...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Yes. But not of your body. Of your
dialog: soul.
text: Wayne exhales. Eyes losing focus from sheer pain.
dialog: 90.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Where am I?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Home.
dialog: 
text: Wayne's eyes dart about: filthy stone walls, distant
text: sunlight from above, iron bars: an underground prison.
dialog: Where I learned the truth about
dialog: despair. As will you. (Rises.)
dialog: There is a reason that this prison
dialog: is the worst hell on earth...
text: Bane steps to the bars - looks up at a bright opening five
text: hundred feet above. Like being at the bottom of a gigantic
dialog: well...
dialog: Hope. Every man who has rotted here
dialog: over the centuries has looked up to
text: the light and imagined climbing to
dialog: freedom. So simple. So easy. And,
text: like shipwrecked men turning to sea
text: water from uncontrollable thirst,
dialog: many have died trying. I learned
dialog: that there can be no true despair
dialog: without hope. (Turns to Wayne.) So
dialog: as I terrorize Gotham, I will feed
dialog: its people hope to poison their
dialog: souls. I will let them believe they
dialog: can survive so that you can watch
text: them clamber over each other to
dialog: stay in the sun...
text: Bane points to an old TV, just outside the bars.
dialog: You will watch as I torture an
dialog: entire city to cause you pain you
dialog: thought you could never feel again.
dialog: Then, when you have truly
dialog: understood the depths of your
dialog: failure, we will fulfill R's al
dialog: A
dialog: Ghl's destiny. We will destroy
speaker_heading: U
dialog: Gotham. And when it is done...when
dialog: Gotham is ashes...then you have my
dialog: permission to die.
text: Bane rises. Leaves. Wayne drifts back to unconsciousness.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - DAY
text: A van pulls through the gate. Selina, inside the van, looks
text: up at the formidable grey building.
dialog: 91.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Guards lead Selina down the cells. Whistles and catcalls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: We're locking her up in here?
speaker_heading: WARDEN
dialog: The Dent Act allows non-segregation
dialog: based on extraordinary need. First
dialog: time she broke out of women's
dialog: correctional she was sixteen.
text: Selina passes a Huge Inmate who strains through the bars...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: HUGE INMATE
dialog: Little closer, baby...
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Why, honey, you wanna hold my hand?
dialog: 
text: Without breaking step, she slips his outstretched hands
text: between her handcuffed ones and cartwheels, snapping his
text: arms - he screams in agony - she keeps walking...
speaker_heading: WARDEN
dialog: She'll be just fine.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - DAY
text: Fox comes out of the elevator with Miranda.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I don't see the need for a board
dialog: meeting on the energy project -
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Bruce got a lot of things right.
dialog: Keeping the board in the dark
dialog: wasn't one of them...
text: Fox swings the doors to the boardroom open...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BOARDROOM, WAYNE ENTERPRISES - CONTINUOUS
text: The board is there. Scared. At the head of the table - Bane.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: This meeting is called to order.
text: Fox and Miranda freeze. Staring at the mask.
dialog: 92.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Chair and President. I also need
dialog: one ordinary member - Mr. Fox,
dialog: would you care to nominate?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FREDERICKS
dialog: No. I volunteer.
text: The dignified older board member gets to his feet.
text: Mercernaries round the three up.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Where are you taking us?
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Where you buried your resources.
text: The bowels of Gotham.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
text: Gordon, with a Nurse's help, pulls himself to a seated
text: position as Blake watches.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: So you think our friend is gone
dialog: again?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (GRAVE)
dialog: This time...he might not be coming
dialog: back.
text: Gordon takes this in...Foley bursts in, agitated.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Okay, Commissioner, you were right.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What's happened?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Your masked man kidnapped the Wayne
dialog: Enterprises board. He let most of
dialog: them go, but took three down into
dialog: the sewers.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No more patrols, no more hide and
dialog: seek. Send every available cop
dialog: down there to smoke him out.
dialog: 93.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: The Mayor won't want panic -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: So it's a training exercise.
dialog: 
text: Foley looks at Gordon.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm sorry for not taking you
speaker_heading: SERIOUSLY -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Don't apologize for believing the
dialog: world's in better shape then it
dialog: is...just fight to make it true.
dialog: 
text: Foley nods. Leaves. Blake gets up.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Not you. You're telling me the
dialog: Batman's gone. So you chase up the
dialog: Daggett leads, any way you can.
dialog: 
text: Blake nods.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
dialog: 
text: Wayne lies, weak, feverish. A Prisoner drips water onto his
text: parched lips. An elderly Blind Prisoner squatting by the
text: wall in the next cell rasps something in an ancient tongue.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He asks if you would pay us to let
dialog: you die. I told him you have
dialog: nothing.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Do it for the pleasure.
dialog: 
text: The Prisoner puts bread to Wayne's lips.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: They pay me more than that to keep
dialog: you alive.
dialog: 
text: A chant gets Wayne's attention. He rolls his head painfully
text: to watch a Tattooed Prisoner hand a thick rope to a Strong
text: Man, who ties it around his chest, watched by other
dialog: Prisoners.
dialog: 94.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He will try the climb.
text: Strong Man starts scaling the wall. The Prisoners' chant
text: grows stronger as he climbs towards the light.
dialog: 
text: Above: Strong Man stops, perched on a ledge, a twelve-foot
text: leap from the rest of the climb... The chanting peaks as
text: Strong Man leaps...misses...falls. The rope catches - he
text: swings into the rock face. Prisoners fall silent as Strong
text: Man is lowered, broken, bloody, to the prison floor.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Has anyone made it?
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Of course not.
dialog: 
text: The Blind Prisoner barks at him.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: What does he say?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He says there is one who did. A
dialog: child...
text: INSERT CUT: a child of about ten looks up towards the light.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: A child who had been born in this
dialog: hell...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Bane.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: An old legend. Nothing more.
text: The Prisoner leaves Wayne's cell - switches on the TV.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Don't.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Whatever they want you to
dialog: see...it's happening soon.
dialog: 95.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BANE'S LAIR, SEWERS - DAY
text: Bane's men lead Fox, Miranda and Fredericks through the
text: debris. Fox stares at Mercenaries working on his old
dialog: inventions...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. LOCATIONS AROUND GOTHAM - EVENING
text: SWATs and Cops mass around entrances to sewers, tunnels...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MASSIVE TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane leads Fox and the others to where Mercenaries plant
text: charges on a hewn wall. Dr. Pavel is here. Waiting. Bane
text: nods at his men. The wall blows.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. LOCATIONS AROUND GOTHAM - CONTINUOUS
text: A SWAT team about to enter a sewer pipe hear a low echoing
text: boom. They look at each other, then head in. Thousands of
text: Police head into manholes, tunnel entrances, checking
text: weapons, using flashlights...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. MASSIVE TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane leads the way over rubble into the REACTOR. Dr. Pavel
text: follows. Bane approaches the machine. Turns to Fox.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Turn it on.
dialog: 
text: Fox shakes his head. Bane holds his gun to Fredericks' head.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I only need one other board member.
dialog: There are eight more waiting
dialog: upstairs.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I won't do it.
text: Fredericks trembles. Bane cocks the weapon.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Alright, stop.
text: She walks up to the scanner. Places her hand on it. It
text: beeps. She turns to Fox. Quietly pleading.
dialog: 96.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Lucius, you'll kill this man and
dialog: yourself, and barely slow them
dialog: down.
text: Fox reluctantly puts his hand on the scanner. Then
text: Fredericks. The core glows brighter and brighter. Dr. Pavel
text: is transfixed.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Do your work.
text: Bane turns to his men. Gestures at the hostages.
dialog: Take them to the surface. People of
dialog: their status deserve to see the
dialog: next era of western civilization.
text: Fox, Miranda and Fredericks are led back into the rubble.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - DAY
dialog: 
text: The Mayor, flanked by Security, talks to a crowd of
dialog: Reporters.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: We're seeing literally thousands of
text: police heading into the sewers -
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: A training exercise, that's all. If
dialog: you'll excuse me, I've got tickets
dialog: to watch our boys thrash Rapid
dialog: City.
text: The Mayor heads into the stadium with the crowds...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: Hundreds of SWATs wade, flashlights swinging, heading
text: towards the center... Teams are converging from different
dialog: entry points...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake is on the phone.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I've been to half Daggett's cement
dialog: plants, logged locations they've
dialog: poured for underground
dialog: construction...
dialog: 97.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.)
dialog: Anything strange about the
dialog: pourings?
text: Blake glances at a large map - dots mark pouring locations.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Honestly, Commissioner, I don't
dialog: know anything about civil
dialog: engineering.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: But you know about patterns. Keep
dialog: looking.
text: Blake pulls up in front of a cement plant.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
text: Dr. Pavel finishes his work. Turns to Bane. Grave.
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
dialog: It's done. This is now a
text: four-megaton nuclear bomb.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: (to his men)
text: Pull the core out of the reactor.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
speaker_heading: (HORRIFIED)
dialog: You can't. This is the only power
dialog: source capable of sustaning it - if
dialog: you move it, the core will decay in
dialog: a matter of months.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Five, by my calculations.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
dialog: And then it will go off.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: For the sake of your family, Dr.
dialog: Pavel, I hope so.
dialog: 
text: Dr. Pavel stares as Mercenaries start to disconnect the
dialog: core...
dialog: 98.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CEMENT PLANT - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake is led through a fence by a Worker.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WORKER
text: Boss is about to leave.
text: Blake walks past cement mixers. Spots someone. A Driver.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Hey.
text: The Driver turns.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: That was you outside the stock
dialog: exchange, right?
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: When?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: When? When half the city's cops
text: were trying to pull onto Castle
dialog: Street and your truck shut them
dialog: out.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Oh yeah. You're that cop -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Detective, now.
dialog: 
text: Behind Blake the Worker puts his hand is his pocket...
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: And as a detective...I'm not
dialog: allowed to believe in coincidences
speaker_heading: ANYMORE -
text: Blake spins, drawing his weapon. The Worker lunges with a
text: knife, Blake smashes his hand to one side and shoots him.
text: The Driver grabs him from behind. Blake wrestles, but the
text: Driver is strong, trained. Blake can't aim his gun, he fires
text: behind, into a steel mixer - the bullets ricochet, one
text: catches the Driver in the back and he goes down... Blake,
text: gasping, kneels beside the Driver.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What were you doing?! What?!
dialog: 
text: The man dies. Blake looks down at his gun. Disgusted. Tosses
text: is down. Pulls out his phone. Dials.
dialog: 99.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Commissioner, I'm at the Fourteenth
dialog: Street plant with two dead
text: witnesses and a lot of questions.
dialog: Call me -
dialog: 
text: Blake freezes, stooped to pick up his gun. Looking at some
dialog: empty barrels...
dialog: Commissioner, they've got
dialog: Polyisobutylene here... (Looks
dialog: around.) And motor oil. They
dialog: weren't making cement, they were
dialog: making explosives -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER OUTSIDE CEMENT PLANT - MOMENTS LATER
dialog: 
text: Blake grabs his carts - scanning the pattern of the dots -
dialog: realizes.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Oh, God.
dialog: 
text: Blake fires up the cruiser and pulls out, hard.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake is driving furiously, shouting into the radio -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Patch me into Foley!
speaker_heading: DISPATCH
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: Foley's overseeing the operation -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: They're heading into a trap!
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MTA TUNNEL - MOMENTS LATER (DAY)
text: Foley, concerned, takes the radio from a colleague.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Foley.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It's a trap! Pull everyone out!
text: Bane's been pouring concrete laced
dialog: with explosives -
dialog: 100.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Where?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: There's a ring around the tunnels -
dialog: they're gonna blow it and trap the
dialog: cops underground!
text: Foley looks up with dread at the mouth of the tunnel.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Pull out! Pull 'em out!
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BOILER ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Mercenaries rise from a hole in the floor - Bane emerges...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM STADIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: The Mayor, in a corporate box, mouths the National Anthem...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: The Mercenaries pull out detonators. Bane listens to the
text: kickoff like a hunting dog sensing the wind...decides.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Let the games begin.
text: The Mercenaries hit the detonators.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - CONTINUOUS
text: SWATs react - the tunnel roof behind collapses... Chunks of
text: concrete structure drop - thousands of police throughout
text: different tunnels are trapped...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: The crowd goes wild as a Receiver catches - starts a run -
text: the Mayor looks on, suddenly confused.
dialog: 
text: As the Receiver sprints for the end zone, the field behind
text: him DROPS away in smoking ruins, swallowing Players...
text: The crowd is not cheering but SCREAMING... The Mayor's box
text: EXPLODES...
dialog: 101.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: The Receiver, nearing the touchdown, glances back - sees
text: Armageddon - the entire field is now a smoking mass of
text: rubble, but for one strip of turf...Mercenaries pour out of
text: the tunnel, creating a gauntlet...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake's cruiser swerves to avoid eruptions of asphalt. An
text: eruption TOSSES Blake's cruiser onto its roof.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM RIVER - CONTINUOUS
dialog: All bridges, except the Gotham Bridge, suffer controlled
dialog: demolitions.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOCKER ROOM TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane steps into the smoking stadium, a gladiator walking
text: into the arena...TV cameras swing onto him. Passing a dead
text: umpire, he takes the men's headset - surveys the screaming
text: crowd, lifts an arm for silence, raises the mike to his
dialog: mask.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Gotham, take control of your
dialog: city...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. OVERTURNED CRUISER ON GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake squeezes out of his cruiser, reaches in for the radio.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Foley?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: Jesus, Blake! Every cop in the
dialog: city's down in those tunnels!
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (REALIZES)
dialog: Not every cop...
dialog: 
text: Blake pulls the shotgun from his cruiser - flags down a car.
dialog: 102.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon's heart-rate monitor alarms. Gordon wakes, groggy...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Patients and Doctors crowd the entrance. mercenaries with
text: automatic weapons force their way in - hit the stairwell.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT./EXT. CAR GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake drives, swerving around dazed and terrified people.
text: Flames and smoke billow from the sewers.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake races up to the hospital entrance.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, GOTHAM HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Two Mercenaries move room to room, searching.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon pulls himself out of his bed, wheeling his IV.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR, HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake jumps into the corridor, gun raised. Shots echo down
text: the hall - Blake sprints.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake leaps into the room, gun high - freezes as warm metal
text: touches the base of his skull.
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.)
text: Clear the corners, rookie.
text: Blake turns. Gordon holds his service weapon. The
text: Mercenaries are on the ground, dead.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Get my coat, son.
dialog: 103.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - CONTINUOUS
text: Mercenaries pull the glowing core onto the field.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: This is the instrument of your
dialog: liberation...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PENTAGON WAR ROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Analysts and military personnel assess the situation.
speaker_heading: ANALYST
dialog: Satellite shows a radiation
dialog: spike...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ANALYST 2
dialog: Whatever it is...it's nuclear.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The Mercenaries thrust Dr. Pavel to his knees before Bane.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Identify yourself to the world.
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
dialog: Dr. Leonid Pavel, nuclear
dialog: physicist.
text: Bane turns Dr. Pavel's head for the cameras.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PENTAGON WAR ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Armed Forces and Intelligence staff scramble to verify.
speaker_heading: CIA ANALYST
dialog: Pavel was confirmed dead - plane
text: crash on an Agency pull-out of
dialog: Uzbekistan... But it certainly
dialog: looks like him -
text: He points to a monitor with a photo of Dr. Pavel. An Air
text: Force General rubs his chin, thinking, nervous.
dialog: 104.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES ABOVE GOTHAM - CONTINUOUS
text: F-22's streak over the river, sizing up the island.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane rests his powerful hand on Dr. Pavel's shoulder.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Tell the world what this is.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
text: A fully primed neutron bomb. With a
dialog: blast radius of six miles.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: And who can disarm this device?
speaker_heading: DR. PAVEL
dialog: Only me.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Thank you, Doctor.
text: Bane snaps Dr. Pavel's neck in front of the world.
speaker_heading: BANE
text: The bomb is armed, the bomb is
dialog: mobile, the identity of the
dialog: triggerman is a mystery. One of you
dialog: holds the detonator - we come not
dialog: as conquerors, but as liberators to
dialog: return control of this city to the
text: people. At the first sign of
dialog: interference from the outside world
dialog: or of people attempting to flee,
dialog: this anonymous Gothamite, this
text: unsung hero, will trigger the bomb.
dialog: For now, martial law is in effect.
dialog: Return to your homes, hold your
text: families close, and wait. Tomorrow
dialog: you claim what is rightfully yours.
text: Bane turns, leaves the field, followed by his men.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. PENTAGON WAR ROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: The General breaks the silence.
dialog: 105.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GENERAL
dialog: Pull back the fighters, start
text: high-level reconnaissance flights.
dialog: And get the President on the line.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - SUNSET
text: Mercenaries hold the bridge. A tank rolls across from the
text: mainland, soldiers behind. The Lead Mercenary uses a
text: bullhorn.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LEAD MERCENARY
dialog: Tanks and planes cannot stop us
dialog: detonating our device. Send an
dialog: emissary to discuss terms of access
dialog: for supplies and communication.
dialog: 
text: A Captain steps forward, walks to the apex of the bridge.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: How many of you are there, son?
dialog: (Nothing.) You don't have enough
dialog: men to stop twelve million people
dialog: leaving that island.
speaker_heading: LEAD MERCENARY
dialog: We don't. But you do.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN
dialog: Why in the hell would we help you
dialog: keep your hostages?
speaker_heading: LEAD MERCENARY
dialog: If people start crossing this
text: bridge Gotham gets blown to hell.
text: The Captain considers this. Troubled.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SKIES ABOVE GOTHAM - CONTINUOUS
text: As night falls the F-22's peel away from the fire-ringed
text: city. The voice of the President echoes across the
dialog: airwaves...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRESIDENT
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: The people of our greatest city are
dialog: resilient. They have proven this
dialog: before, they will prove this
dialog: again...
dialog: 106.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Wayne stares at the old TV. At his burning city.
speaker_heading: PRESIDENT
speaker_heading: (OVER TV)
dialog: We do not negotiate with
dialog: terrorists, but we do recognize
dialog: realities...
text: Wayne starts to cry.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS (NIGHT)
text: Blake drives the deserted streets. Gordon is slumped in the
text: passenger seat, listening.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRESIDENT
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
text: As the situation develops, one
dialog: thing must be understood above all
dialog: others... People of Gotham, we have
dialog: not abandoned you.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What does that mean?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It means we're on our own. I have
dialog: to get in front of a camera -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Sir, they'll kill you the second
dialog: you show your face -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The Mayor's dead. I'm the symbol of
dialog: law and order. Bane says he's
dialog: giving Gotham back to the people -
dialog: they need to know that I could
dialog: lead.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Bane's not gonna let that happen -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Then he'll show his true colors.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: And you'll be dead.
dialog: 
text: Gordon says nothing.
dialog: 107.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - DAY
text: Three camouflage Tumblers roll down the deserted street.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - MOMENTS LATER
dialog: 
text: A crowd of news crews has gathered. Guards in the towers
text: look down, apprehensive. The Tumblers roll up, stopping in
text: front of the gates. Bane emerges from the lead Tumbler.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Behind you stands a symbol of
dialog: oppression. Blackgate Prison...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CELLBLOCK, BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Prisoners strain to hear Bane's words. Selina is there.
speaker_heading: BANE (O.S.)
dialog: Where a thousand men have
dialog: languished for years. Under the
dialog: Dent Act. Under the name of this
speaker_heading: MAN -
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane holds up a photo of Harvey Dent.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Harvey Dent. Held up to you, and
dialog: over you, as a shining example of
dialog: justice and good...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon sits watching Bane's speech. Blake gathers supplies.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: We're gonna keep moving you, till
dialog: we can get you in front of a camera
dialog: -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane sets fire to the picture of Dent...
dialog: 108.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: But they supplied you a false idol.
dialog: A straw man. To placate. To stop
dialog: you tearing down this corrupt
dialog: city...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CELLBLOCK, BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: The Prisoners start cheering, shouting.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (O.S.)
dialog: ...and rebuilding it the way it
dialog: should have been rebuilt
dialog: generations ago...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane drops the burning picture.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Let me tell you the truth about
dialog: Harvey Dent. In the words of
dialog: Gotham's Police Commissioner, James
dialog: Gordon...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: This gets Blake's attention. Gordon watches, uneasy...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane unfolds the pages of Gordon's undelivered speech...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: 'The truth about Harvey Dent is
dialog: simple in only one regard - it has
dialog: been hidden for too long. After his
text: devastating injuries, Harvey's mind
dialog: has recovered no better than his
text: mutilated face. He was a broken,
dialog: dangerous man, not the crusader for
dialog: justice that I, James Gordon, have
dialog: portrayed him to be for the last
dialog: eight years. Harvey's rage was
text: indiscriminate. Psychopathic. He
dialog: held my family at gunpoint, then
text: fell to his death in the struggle
dialog: over my son's life. The Batman did
dialog: not murder Harvey Dent - he saved
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 109.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (CONT'D)
dialog: my boy. Then took the blame for
dialog: Harvey's appalling crimes, so that
dialog: I could, to my shame, build a lie
dialog: around this fallen idol.'
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake stares at the TV, Gordon's face lowers into his
dialog: hands...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: 'I praised the madman who tried to
dialog: murder my own child.'
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: The crowd is silent, stunned, as Bane continues to read.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: 'The things we did in Harvey's name
dialog: brought desperately needed security
dialog: to our streets... But I can no
dialog: longer live with my lie. It is time
dialog: to trust the people of Gotham with
dialog: the truth, and it is time for me to
dialog: resign.'
dialog: 
text: Bane folds the papers. Looks out to the stunned crowd.
dialog: Do you accept this man's
dialog: resignation?
dialog: 
text: Individuals in the crows start shouting 'Yes!'
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CELLBLOCK, BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Prisoners cheer, pounding against the bars. Selina
dialog: watches...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Do you accept the resignation of
dialog: all the liars?! All the corrupt?!
text: More and more of the crowd is chanting 'Yes!'
dialog: 110.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLAKE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake turns to Gordon, who stares at the TV.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: These men, locked up in Blackgate
dialog: for eight years, denied parole
dialog: under the Dent Act. Based on a lie.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: A lie to keep a city from burning
dialog: to the ground. Gotham needed a
dialog: hero, someone to believe in -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Not as much as it does now. But you
dialog: betrayed everything you stood for.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (looks at Blake)
dialog: There's a point. Far out there.
dialog: When the structures fail you. When
dialog: the rules aren't weapons anymore,
dialog: they're shackles, letting the bad
dialog: get ahead. Maybe one day you'll
dialog: have such a moment of crisis. And
dialog: in that moment, I hope you have a
dialog: friend like I did. To plunge their
dialog: hands into the filth so you can
dialog: keep yours clean.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Your hands look pretty filthy to
dialog: me, Commissioner.
dialog: 
text: Gordon stares at him. Blake goes back to packing.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane signals a Tumbler - its turret turns to the prison
dialog: doors.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: We take Gotham from the corrupt.
text: The rich. The oppressors of
dialog: generations who've kept you down
dialog: with the myth of opportunity. And
dialog: we give it to you, the people.
dialog: Gotham is yours - none shall
dialog: interfere. Do as you please...
dialog: 
text: The Tumbler fires, blowing the doors to hell.
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 111.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (CONT'D)
text: But start by storming Blackgate and
dialog: freeing the oppressed... Step
dialog: forward, those who would serve...
dialog: 
text: Bane's men surge through the burning gates...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLACKGATE PRISON - CONTINUOUS
text: Selina watches as Prisoners stream out of open cell doors.
text: She makes her way quietly through the excited throng.
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: For an army will be raised...
text: Mercenaries hand out weapons to escaping Prisoners...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. PARK BOULEVARD - DAY
text: As Mercenaries shoot open locks, people storm into expensive
text: apartment buildings overlooking the park...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: The powerful will be ripped from
dialog: their decadent nests...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BEAUTIFUL OLD GOTHAM APARTMENT - DAY
text: People ransack the apartment...
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: ...and cast into the cold world the
dialog: rest of us have known and
dialog: endured...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. PARK BOULEVARD - DAY
dialog: 
text: Wealthy people are herded onto the street by Mercenaries...
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: Courts will be convened...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY
text: A kangaroo court is in session, presided over by a Criminal
text: we recognize from Blackgate. Bane watches from the
dialog: gallery...
dialog: 112.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: The spoils will be enjoyed...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ELEGANT APARTMENT, PARK BOULEVARD - DAY
dialog: 
text: Tough-looking Revellers crack open champagne - spraying it,
text: swigging it - Selina amongst them, watching...
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: Blood will be shed...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWERS - DAY
text: Hundreds of Police living underground. Dividing up supplies
text: lowered by ropes... Ross opens a pack of supplies.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: But the police will live, until
dialog: they are ready to serve true
dialog: justice...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STADIUM - NIGHT
text: Moving in on the bright glow of the core...
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: This great city will endure...
text: Close enough to see the flickering digits of its
dialog: countdown...
speaker_heading: BANE (V.O.)
dialog: Gotham will survive.
text: Mercenaries load the core into the back of a black truck.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
dialog: 
text: Wayne rolls off his cot. Grunts. The Prisoner realizes Wayne
text: is trying to do a push-up. From the next cell, the Blind
dialog: Prisoner says something...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He says you must first straighten
dialog: your back.
text: The Prisoner helps Wayne roll over, painfully.
dialog: 113.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How would he know?
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He was the prison doctor. A
dialog: morphine addict who incurred the
dialog: displeasure of powerful people.
dialog: Including your masked friend.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Many years ago, during a time of
dialog: plague, Bane was attacked by other
text: prisoners. The doctor's fumbling
dialog: attempts to repair the damage left
text: him in perpetual agony. The mask
text: holds his pain at bay.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Is Bane the child you spoke of? Was
dialog: he born here?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: The legend is that there was a
dialog: mercenary working for the local
dialog: warlord who fell in love with his
text: daughter. They married in secret.
dialog: 
text: The Prisoner takes a rope - ties it under Wayne's arms.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: When the warlord found out, he
dialog: condemned the mercenary to this
text: pit. But then exiled him instead.
text: INSERT CUT: the Mercenary is dropped at the side of a barren
text: road. He starts to walk.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: The mercenary understood that the
dialog: warlord's daughter had secured his
dialog: release, but he couldn't know the
dialog: true price of his freedom. She had
text: taken his place in the pit.
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: a Woman is lowered into the prison. The
text: prisoners below all have their faces covered with muslin
dialog: masks...
dialog: 114.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: And she was with the child. The
dialog: mercenary's child.
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: the Woman watches as the Doctor, (the Blind
text: Prisoner, younger-looking, sighted) examines her small
text: child. The Doctor exits, locking the cell...
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: One day the doctor forgot the lock
dialog: the cell...
text: INSERT CUT: Prisoners move into the cell towards his mother.
text: The child runs at them with a knife...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Innocence cannot flower
dialog: underground. It was to be stamped
dialog: out. But the child had a friend. A
dialog: protector...
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: the Protector, face covered, pulls the Child off
text: the attackers. One grabs for the Child - the Protector snaps
text: his arm, carries the Child into a corner...
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: ...who showed the others that this
dialog: innocence was their redemption. The
dialog: mother was not so lucky.
text: The Blind Prisoner shouts at the Prisoner. He nods.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
text: This is Bane's prison now. Bane
dialog: would not want this story told.
text: The Prisoner pulls - Wayne screams in pain as he is pulled
text: upright. The Prisoner ties him off. Checks his spine.
dialog: You have a protruding
dialog: vertebra...I'm going to force it
dialog: back...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How -?
dialog: 
text: The Prisoner punches Wayne in the back, hard. Wayne screams.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: You stay like this. Until you
dialog: stand.
dialog: 
text: Wayne passes out from the pain and we FADE TO BLACK.
text: Wayne is hanging in his cell, delirious.
dialog: 115.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL (O.S.)
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: Did you not think I'd return,
dialog: Bruce?
text: R's al Ghl, in his Ducard guise, steps in front of Wayne.
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: 
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: I told you I was immortal.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I watched you die.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: There are many forms of
dialog: immortality.
text: Wayne looks inward, remembering...
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: R's at the campfire (from Batman Begins).
dialog: A
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: Once I had a wife. My great love.
dialog: She was taken from me...
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: the Woman is lowered into the prison...
text: Wayne looks at R's.
dialog: A
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You were the mercenary. Bane is
dialog: your child. Your heir.
text: INSERT CUT: the Mercenary at the side of the road. R's.
dialog: A
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: An heir to ensure the League of
dialog: Shadows fulfills its duty to
dialog: restore balance to civilization.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: No...
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: You yourself fought the decadence
dialog: of Gotham for years. With all your
dialog: strength and resources, all your
dialog: moral authority. And the only
dialog: victory you could achieve was a
dialog: lie. Finally you understand...
dialog: Gotham is beyond saving...
dialog: 116.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: NO!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: R'S AL GHL
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: And must be allowed to die.
dialog: CUT TO WHITE. And we are -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STREET, DOWNTOWN GOTHAM - DAY
text: Snow blankets the street. A Tumbler carves tracks as it
text: patrols the deserted street. Blake peers from behind a
text: parked car - he is crouched, feeding a kite string down a
dialog: storm drain.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SEWER TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Ross strains to reach a note dangling on a string - he
text: grasps it. All around him are dozens of Cops living
dialog: underground...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake winds the string, picks up a jerrycan, hurries off.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ST. SWITHIN'S HOME FOR BOYS - CONTINUOUS
text: The home is packed. People, not just kids, huddle in every
text: corner. Blake spots Father Reilly. Hands him the can.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: For the bus in case there's a
dialog: chance to evacuate. Keep it in here
text: - people are siphoning parked cars.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Really?
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (GRINS)
dialog: How do you think I got it?
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Right. Any news? Is the
speaker_heading: COMMISSIONER -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Less you know, Father. How're the
dialog: boys?
dialog: 117.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Power's been on more, so they get
dialog: some TV.
dialog: 
text: Blake smiles. Moves to the door.
dialog: Blake, you be careful out there.
dialog: They're hunting down cops like
dialog: dogs.
dialog: 
text: Blake nods. Leaves.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ELEGANT APARTMENT, PARK BOULEVARD - DAWN
text: Following Selina through rooms strewn with trash, empty
text: bottles and sleeping partygoers. She spots a family
text: photograph, glass smashed. A hand lands on her shoulder.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: Who's that?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: This was someone's home.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: Now it's everyone's home.
dialog: 
text: Selina stares out at a Tumbler rolling by.
speaker_heading: JEN
dialog: 'Storm's coming', remember? This is
dialog: what you wanted.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: No. It's what I thought I wanted.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
dialog: 
text: The Prisoner unties the rope from Wayne's chest. Wayne
text: stands. Just. Then walks.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SAME - LATER
dialog: 
text: Wayne does push-ups. Stronger. The Prisoner watches.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Why build yourself?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm not meant to die in here.
dialog: The Prisoner indicates the TV:
dialog: 118.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: SIEGE OF GOTHAM: DAY 84.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Here? There? What's the difference?
text: Wayne ignores this. Focuses on his body...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
text: Wayne moves to the wall - takes the rope from the Tattooed
text: Prisoner, wraps it around his chest. Curious Prisoners
text: gather, the Prisoner at their head. Wayne looks up at the
text: light, hundreds of feet above. Starts to climb. Prisoners
text: get excited as Wayne RISES - money starts exchanging hands.
text: Reaching the precipice, he checks his rope, looks up at the
text: next handhold, far away. He takes a breath, then LEAPS.
text: His fingers brush the ledge. Wayne DROPS a hundred feet -
text: the rope catches, SLAMMING him into the rock face. The
text: Prisoners disperse, losing interest as the Tattooed Prisoner
text: lowers Wayne on the rope. The Blind Prisoner turns away.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: I told you it could not be done.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: You told me a child did it...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: No ordinary child...
text: INSERT CUT: the Protector fights off prisoners as the Child,
text: older now, moves to the climbing wall
text: A child born in hell.
text: INSERT CUT: the Child makes the climb...pauses, looking down
text: - making eye-contact with the Protector, who fights off
text: Prisoners... They swarm over the Protector, knives drawn.
text: A child forged by suffering,
dialog: hardened by pain...
text: INSERT CUT: the Child leaps across the abyss, grabbing a
text: handhold on the ledge and swinging up...
dialog: Not a man from privilege.
dialog: 
text: Wayne's eyes close in despair.
dialog: 119.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CHECKPOINT, GOTHAM BRIDGE - DAY
text: Supply trucks await inspection. Mercenaries open an
text: 18-wheeler - check boxes of rations...wave it on...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SUPERMARKET - CONTINUOUS
text: The 18-wheeler pulls up. A line of Gothamites waits
text: patiently along the sidewalk.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. 18-WHEELER - CONTINUOUS
text: Three plain-clothes Special Forces Men emerge from the
text: boxes, checking, then concealing weapons. The doors open -
text: they exit.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - CONTINUOUS
text: The Special Forces Men carry boxes into the store as if
text: delivering. The Store Manager leads them into the back and
dialog: down into -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOWER STOREROOM - CONTINUOUS
text: Where they are met by four Cops out of uniform.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You have ID?
speaker_heading: SPECIAL FORCES 1
dialog: Of course not.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: How can we trust you?
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.)
dialog: We don't have any choice.
dialog: 
text: Gordon and Blake emerge from the back of the room.
speaker_heading: SPECIAL FORCES 1
dialog: Commissioner Gordon? Captain Jones,
dialog: Special Forces.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Captain, glad to have you here.
dialog: 120.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: How many of you are there?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Dozens. I'd rather not say exactly.
dialog: But the men trapped underground
dialog: number almost three thousand.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: What kind of shape they're in?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: They've been getting water, food.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: Could we break them out?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Yes, sir - take out the mercenaries
dialog: guarding the outflow south of
dialog: Ackerman Park, blow the rubble,
dialog: you've got a hole big enough for
dialog: ten at a time. I'm in contact with
dialog: my partner - they're waiting for
dialog: the day.
speaker_heading: SPECIAL FORCES 2
dialog: Men who haven't seen daylight for
dialog: three months?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Men with automatic weapons who
dialog: haven't seen daylight in three
dialog: months.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: What about the bomb? The satellites
dialog: can't see any radiation hot
dialog: spots...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - DAY
text: Blake scouts with Jones. A rumble makes them turn.
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: They keep it on a truck - it must
text: have a lead-lined roof. They move
dialog: it constantly.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES (V.O.)
dialog: But you know the truck?
dialog: 121.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: They've got three of them. The
dialog: routes don't vary much.
text: Two Tumblers lead a massive black truck down the street.
text: Captain Jones reaches into his jacket and triggers a Geiger
text: counter. Shows Blake the display. Nods. One of the Tumblers
text: stops, turns back. Blake leads them down a side street.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOWER STOREROOM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: What about the triggerman?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No leads. It's a bluff - Bane
dialog: wouldn't give control of that bomb
text: to someone else.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: We can't take that chance. Until we
dialog: have the triggerman, we just track
dialog: the device, smuggle men over -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: While Gotham lives under a warlord,
dialog: like in some failed state?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: Dial it back, officer. This
dialog: situation is unprecedented. We
dialog: can't do anything to risk millions
dialog: of lives.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (TO GORDON)
dialog: Aren't you gonna tell him?!
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Captain, things are more
dialog: complicated than you think. There's
dialog: somebody you need to meet. Blake?
text: Blake nods, leads Jones and his men up the stairs.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET, DOWNTOWN - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake leads them to the door of an empty bank.
dialog: 122.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TELLSONS BANK - CONTINUOUS
text: They head across the empty lobby to an elevator.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. OFFICES ABOVE TELLSONS - MOMENTS LATER
dialog: 
text: Blake leads them into empty offices. Cots and makeshift
text: furnishings line the offices and corridors.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I was up here looking for a vantage
dialog: point. Found the people who run the
dialog: corporation who owns it living
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: Which corporation?
speaker_heading: FOX (O.S.)
dialog: Wayne Enterprises.
text: Lucius Fox is there, with Miranda Tate.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Captain, meet Mr. Fox. Mr. Fox, I'd
dialog: like you to brief the Captain.
text: Captain Jones indicates Miranda.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Miss Tate is fully aware of the
dialog: situation.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: And as CEO of Wayne Enterprises, I
dialog: have to take responsibility for it.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: Why?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Because, Captain, we built it.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: You built the bomb?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
text: It was built as a fusion reactor.
dialog: The first of its kind. Bane turned
text: the core into a bomb, then
text: disconnected it from the reactor.
dialog: 123.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: And here's the important part.
speaker_heading: FOX
text: As the device's fuel cells decay,
dialog: it's becoming increasingly
dialog: unstable...until the point of
text: detonation.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
text: The bomb's a time bomb.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: And it will go off. In twenty-three
dialog: days.
text: Captain Jones reels at this news.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Bane's revolution is a sham. He's
text: watching Gotham rearrange its
text: deckchairs while the whole ship's
dialog: going down. Your appeasement plan
dialog: might not be as practical as you
dialog: thought.
text: Captain Jones throws Blake a look. Addresses Fox.
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: Could you disarm it?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I don't know, But I could reconnect
dialog: it to the reactor. Stabilize it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: We'd have to let the Pentagon know.
speaker_heading: SPECIAL FORCES 2
dialog: They'll be monitoring our
speaker_heading: FREQUENCIES -
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: We have no choice. Let's move away
dialog: from this location, then call it
dialog: in.
dialog: 124.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TELLSONS BANK - MOMENTS LATER
text: Captain Jones exits the elevator, followed by his men and
text: Blake. Halfway across the floor, hell breaks loose.
text: Mercenaries blast them with machine guns - the lobby becomes
text: a devastating ambush. Blake dives back into the elevator.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. OFFICES ABOVE TELLSONS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake flies out of the elevator.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Fox, somebody sold us out!
text: Fox and Miranda burst into the corridor.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Take Miranda -
text: Blake grabs Miranda, heads for the back stairs. Mercenaries
text: jump out of the elevator, firing high.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MERCERNARY
text: DOWN ON THE FLOOR!
text: Fox freezes. Lowers himself to the ground.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TELLSONS BANK - CONTINUOUS
text: Captain Jones goes down in a hail of bullets. The other
text: Special Forces Men are down. Bane enters, midges Jones with
text: his toe. He is alive. Barely. Bane leans in close. Jones
text: looks up at him, defiant.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CAPTAIN JONES
dialog: I'll die before I talk...
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I'm on your schedule, Captain.
dialog: 
text: Bane places his hand over Jones's nose and mouth.
speaker_heading: MERCERNARY
text: There were people living upstairs.
dialog: 
text: Bane looks up, disinterested. Jones is dead.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Give them over for judgement.
dialog: (Indicates bodies.) Hang them where
dialog: the world will see.
dialog: 125.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STONE CELL, UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
text: Wayne stares at the TV: the Special Forces bodies hang in
text: the cables of Gotham Bridge. Wayne throws a stone into the
dialog: screen.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. SAME - LATER
dialog: 
text: Wayne does endless push-ups, squats, stretches. The Blind
text: Prisoner listens. He speaks in an ancient tongue.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He says the leap to freedom is not
dialog: about strength.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
text: My body makes the jump.
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
speaker_heading: (CRACKED ENGLISH)
dialog: Survival is the spirit. The soul.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: My soul's as ready to escape as my
dialog: body.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
dialog: Fear is why you fail.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm not afraid. I'm angry.
dialog: 
text: Wayne throws punches...focused.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND PRISON - DAY
dialog: 
text: Wayne takes the rope at the foot of the climb. Prisoners
text: look up, but none bother to gather round. Wayne starts
text: climbing, determined.
text: He FIGHTS the rock face...breathing hard. Grabs at a rock -
text: it comes away in his hand. He DROPS - SMASHES into the rock
text: face. The Blind Prisoner shakes his head.
text: A Skinny Prisoner playing cards with the Prisoner looks up
text: at Wayne, hanging upside down.
speaker_heading: SKINNY PRISONER
dialog: Shouldn't you get him down?
text: The Prisoner glances up at Wayne, disdainful.
dialog: 126.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: He'll keep.
text: As Wayne drifts into unconsciousness we -
text: INSERT CUT: Young Bruce lies at the bottom of the well,
text: looking up at his father, lowering down to rescue him.
speaker_heading: THOMAS WAYNE (V.O.)
dialog: And why do we fall?
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAVE PRISON - NIGHT
text: Wayne wakes with a start - the Blind Prisoner is there.
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
speaker_heading: (CRACKED ENGLISH)
dialog: You do not fear death. You think
dialog: this makes you strong. This makes
dialog: you weak.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
dialog: How can you move faster then
dialog: possible? Fight longer than
dialog: possible? If not from the most
dialog: powerful impulse of the spirit. The
dialog: fear of death. The will to survive.
text: Wayne gets up onto his elbow. Looks at the Blind Prisoner.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I do fear death. I fear dying in
dialog: here while my city burns with no
dialog: one there to save it.
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
dialog: Then make the climb.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: BLIND PRISONER
text: As the child did. Without the rope.
dialog: (Dry laugh.) Then fear will find
dialog: you again.
dialog: Wayne considers this.
dialog: 127.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAVE PRISON - MORNING
text: Wayne puts some scraps of bread into a rough coat which he
text: folds into a makeshift shoulder pack.
speaker_heading: PRISONER
dialog: Supplies for your journey?
text: Prisoners nearby laugh. Wayne moves to the cliff face. The
text: Prisoner follows, intrigued by Wayne's new demeanor. The
text: Tattooed Prisoner offers him the rope. Wayne refuses. Starts
text: to climb. Prisoners gather around as word spreads. Wayne
text: makes his way cautiously up the treacherous rock face. Down
text: below the Prisoners start a low chant.
text: As Wayne hoists himself up onto the precipice something
text: EXPLODES from the cliff face. Wayne flinches - BATS... They
text: circle up to the opening above...
text: Wayne closes his eyes. The chant RISES. Wayne takes a
text: breath...opens his eyes...looks down at the drop...up
text: again...then he jumps.
dialog: 
text: Time skips a beat as the Prisoners stop breathing.
text: And Wayne GRABS the ledge above.
text: The Prisoners go WILD as Wayne hoists himself up onto the
text: ledge. The Blind Prisoner nods. Wayne climbs to FREEDOM.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CAVE PRISON, NEAR A FORTRESS - CONTINUOUS
text: Wayne climbs out of the hole and into formidable desolation.
text: He shoulders his pack - spots a large coil of rope attached
text: to the wall. He pushes it into the hole then walks away...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT, ABANDONED STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY
text: A mass of huddled Gothamites. Professionals (traders,
text: industrialists). In a corner, Fox. Mercenaries come down
text: into the chamber, pull out a man, who starts yelling. It is
text: Stryver, Daggett's functionary.
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: I want to see Bane! There's been a
dialog: mistake! Take me to Bane!
text: Fox watches him dragged upstairs...
dialog: 128.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED STOCK EXCHANGE - MOMENTS LATER
text: A kangaroo court. Stryver is dragged before a jeering crowd.
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: There's been a mistake! Where's
dialog: Bane?!
speaker_heading: VOICE (O.S.)
dialog: There's been no mistake, Mr.
dialog: Stryver.
dialog: 
text: Stryver turns to look at the 'judge': Dr. Jonathan Crane.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: You are Philip Stryver, executive
dialog: vice-president of Daggett
dialog: Industries? (Off nod from Stryver.)
dialog: The same Philip Stryver who for
dialog: years lived like a prince off the
dialog: blood and sweat of people less
dialog: powerful?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Call Bane! I'm one of you!
text: Jeers. Pull back to reveal a silent figure, watching. Bane.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Bane has no authority here. This is
dialog: merely a sentencing hearing. The
dialog: choice is yours, death or exile.
text: Stryver looks around, terrified, as the crowd shouts
dialog: 'Death'.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Exile.
speaker_heading: CRANE
speaker_heading: (SMASHES GAVEL)
dialog: Sold...to the man in the cold
dialog: sweat!
text: Mercenaries pull Stryver from the dock...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM RIVER - DAY
text: Stryver, with other wealthy Gothamites, is led down to the
text: ice. A Blackgate Inmate undoes his handcuffs, whispering.
dialog: 129.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: BLACKGATE INMATE
dialog: Follow the tick ice. Try to swim -
dialog: you're dead in minutes.
speaker_heading: STRYVER
dialog: Has anyone made it?
text: The Blackgate Inmate turns away. Stryver is forced onto the
text: ice. He shuffles forward, listening to the creaking...
text: Stryver is a hundred yards out when the river swallows him.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. EMPTY OFFICE BUILDING - DAY
text: Gordon stands over a map of the city. A handful of Cops sit
text: around the room. Waiting. Gordon looks at his watch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Where the hell are they? It's not
dialog: like we have a lot of time, here.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: How long?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The bomb goes off tomorrow. We've
dialog: got about eighteen hours to do
dialog: something.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: To do what?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We mark that truck. Get a GPS on
dialog: it, then we can start thinking
dialog: about how to take it down.
text: The door opens and Blake enters, followed by ten cops.
text: Gordon is counting them in. He moves to Blake.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
speaker_heading: (LOW)
dialog: That's it?
text: Blake just looks at him. Gordon checks the faces. Realizes.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Foley. Where's Foley, dammit?!
text: Gordon heads for the door.
dialog: 130.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You shouldn't be out on the streets
dialog: -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FOLEY'S BROWNSTONE - DAY
text: Gordon hurries up the steps to a brownstone. Stabs the bell.
speaker_heading: FOLEY'S WIFE
dialog: Jim. He's not here -
dialog: 
text: Gordon, furious, addresses the hallway behind her.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You're sending your wife to the
dialog: door when the city's under
dialog: occupation?!
text: Foley appears at the end of the corridor. Ashamed.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Wait in the kitchen, honey.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What did you do, bury your uniform
dialog: in the backyard?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: Jim, you saw what they did to those
dialog: Special Forces.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You forgotten all the years we went
text: out on patrol with every gangbanger
dialog: wanting to plant one as soon as our
dialog: backs were turned?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: This is different and you know it.
dialog: These guys run the city - the
dialog: government's done a deal with them
dialog: -
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Deal?! Bane's got their balls in a
dialog: vice. That's not a deal -
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You move against Bane, the
dialog: triggerman's gonna hit the button -
dialog: 131.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You think he's given control of
dialog: that bomb to one of 'the people'?!
dialog: You think this is part of some
dialog: revolution? There's one man with
text: his finger on the button - Bane.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: We have to keep our heads down
dialog: until they can fix this. If you
dialog: still had family here maybe you'd -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: This only gets fixed from inside
dialog: the city, Foley. (Calmer.) Look,
dialog: I'm not asking you to walk down
dialog: Grand in your dress blues. But
dialog: we've got to do something before
dialog: this maniac blows us all to hell.
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: I'm sorry Jim. I gotta -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Keep your head down? What's that
dialog: gonna do tomorrow, when that thing
dialog: blows?
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: You don't know that's going to
dialog: happen.
text: Foley closes the door on Gordon. Gordon stands there.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA (O.S)
dialog: I hear you're looking for men,
dialog: Commissioner.
text: Gordon turns to see Miranda, Blake behind her. Blake shrugs.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: How about me, instead?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Miss Tate, I can't ask you -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: My company built it.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Bruce Wayne built it.
dialog: 132.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: And he wanted to destroy it. It was
dialog: me who didn't listen. Please.
text: Gordon looks at Blake. Then Miranda. Nods.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Let's go.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - DAY
dialog: 
text: A Kid sprints down the deserted street, chased by two
text: Gangbangers. The Kid slips in the snow - the men are on him.
speaker_heading: GANGBANGER
dialog: You steal from us, you little
dialog: bastard?
text: They grab the Kid's backpack, the Gangbanger pulls out an
text: apple, moves to hit the Kid when - SMACK! - his hand is
text: grabbed, and the apple flies into the air as his arm cracks.
text: Selina catches the apple.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You boys know you can't come into
dialog: my neighborhood without asking
dialog: politely.
dialog: 
text: Gangbanger 2 lunges with a knife - she spins him, making him
text: stab himself in the backside. The Gangbangers run off,
text: howling. The Kid eyes her, wary.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Never steal anything from someone
dialog: you can't outrun, kid.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Now you're gonna take it.
dialog: 
text: Selina looks at the red apple. Takes one perfect bite.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Just tax.
text: She tosses him the apple. He takes it and runs.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE (O.S.)
dialog: Pretty generous, for a thief.
text: Selina recognizes the voice. Turns to find Wayne - strong,
text: but weathered. Beard, work clothes.
dialog: 133.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You came back. I thought they'd
dialog: killed you.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Not yet.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: If you're expecting an apology -
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: It wouldn't suit you. I need your
dialog: help.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: And why would I help you?
dialog: 
text: Wayne pulls a USB drive out of his pocket.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: For this. The 'Clean Slate'.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You're gonna trust me with that?
dialog: After what I did to you?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I admit I felt a little let down.
dialog: But I still think there's more to
dialog: you. In fact, I think for you -
dialog: (indicates USB) this isn't a tool,
dialog: it's an escape route. You want to
dialog: disappear. Start fresh.
dialog: 
text: She looks at him. Takes the drive, staring at it.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Start fresh? I can't even get off
dialog: this island.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I can give you a way off. Once
dialog: you've gotten me to Lucius Fox. I
dialog: need you to find out where they're
dialog: holding him. Then take me in.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Why do you need Fox?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To save this city.
dialog: 134.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Who says it needs saving? Maybe I
dialog: like it this way.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Maybe you do. But tomorrow that
text: bomb's going off.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Get your powerful friend on the
dialog: case.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I'm trying. But I need Fox.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - DAY
dialog: 
text: Gordon and his Men are in two-man teams. Gordon is walking
text: down the street with Miranda. He hands her a Geiger counter.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Stay further up the block. (Points
dialog: at Men.) They're gonna cross the
dialog: street and try and slow the truck
dialog: down. As it approaches, hit this
dialog: button. If the needle hits two
dialog: hundred - give me the signal and I
dialog: mark the truck. Okay?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: Heads up.
dialog: 
text: Blake is up on a rooftop. Gordon moves down to the other end
text: of the block. As the truck rumbles into view, Gordon's Men
text: walk out into the street in front of it as if crossing the
text: road. The convoy barely slows. Miranda gives Gordon the
text: signal. As the truck comes past, he tosses a magnetic GPS
text: locator at the lower part of the truck...
dialog: 
text: Gordon regroups with his Men on the corner. Checks his GPS.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Got it.
dialog: 
text: They keep moving, turning down the next street...into an
text: ambush. Dozens of Mercenaries, weapons trained.
speaker_heading: MERCENARY
dialog: Commissioner Gordon, you're under
dialog: arrest.
dialog: 135.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: On whose authority?
speaker_heading: MERCERNARY
dialog: The people of Gotham.
dialog: 
text: Blake, from his vantage point, watches Gordon, Miranda and
text: the other Cops being rounded up and led away...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BASEMENT, ABANDONED STOCK EXCHANGE - DAY
dialog: 
text: Miranda comforts a crying Woman in the corner. Thugs come
text: down the stairs, laughing, leading a Hooded Prisoner. They
text: kick him down the last step and he stumbles. Fox moves to
dialog: his aid.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BASEMENT THUG 1
dialog: Find this one a spot, he's got a
dialog: big day tomorrow.
text: They dump the Hooded Man with Fox.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BASEMENT THUG 2
dialog: We all do. It's not every day you
dialog: bag Bruce Wayne...
text: Fox hears this. Pulls the bag from Wayne's head. Wayne nods
text: at him, silent. Fox nods back. The Thugs leave. Miranda
text: comes over.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Bruce?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: You picked a hell of a time to go
text: on vacation, Mr. Wayne.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: How long until the core ignites?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOX
text: That bomb goes off in twelve hours.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Unless we can connect it to the
dialog: reactor.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: If you can get it there. I'll find
dialog: a way to plug it back in.
dialog: (Indicates Miranda.) Can you get
dialog: Miranda out?
dialog: 136.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Not tonight. I'm sorry.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Do what's necessary.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
speaker_heading: (TO FOX)
dialog: Tonight I need you.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: What for?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: To get me back in the game.
text: Catwoman comes down the stairs with the Thugs.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Sorry to spoil things, boys, but
dialog: Bane wants these guys himself...
text: The thugs pull Wayne and Fox to their feet - Miranda looks
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: I won't forget about you.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: I know.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. COLONNADE, HOLDING AREA - CONTINUOUS
text: The Thugs lead Wayne and Fox along the colonnade. Catwoman
text: spins, takes out one Thug with a heel, one with a punch to
text: the throat. Fox smiles as she unlocks his wrists.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: I like your girlfriend, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: He should be so lucky.
text: And she's gone. Fox turns to Wayne. Who shrugs.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. DARK SPACE - NIGHT
text: Lights flicker on... Wayne and Fox are in the Bat-Bunker.
dialog: 137.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Any move I make against Bane or the
text: bomb - the triggerman sets it off.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: They can't be using radio or cell -
dialog: too much interference. Infrared
dialog: doesn't have the range. It could
dialog: only be micro-burst long wave...
text: Wayne opens a panel in the wall, takes out equipment:
dialog: mini-mines, Batarangs, utility belt...
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Could you block it?
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Yes. I need the EMP cannon-guidance
dialog: mount from the Bat. You remember
dialog: where you parked?
text: Wayne nods. Smiles. The Batsuit rises from the floor...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. ABANDONED STOCK EXCHANGE - EVENING (LATE DAY)
text: Gordon and his men on trial. Crane presides.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: The charges are espionage and
dialog: attempted sabotage... Do you have
dialog: anything to say in your defense?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No lawyer, no witnesses. What sort
dialog: of due process is this?
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: More than you give Harvey's
dialog: prisoners, Commissioner. Your guilt
dialog: is determined, this is merely a
dialog: sentencing hearing. What's it to
dialog: be, death or exile?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Crane, if you think we are going
dialog: willingly out onto that ice, you've
dialog: got another think coming.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Death, then?
dialog: 138.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Looks that way.
speaker_heading: CRANE
dialog: Very well... Death... (Smiles.) By
dialog: exile.
dialog: 
text: He smashes his gavel. Bane leans in to one of his men,
dialog: indicates Miranda.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Bring her to me.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWELL, SKYSCRAPER - SUNSET
text: Wayne bounds up the stairs. Fox follows, out of breath
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LUCIUS
dialog: I think it's time to talk about my
dialog: year-end bonus...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP, SKYSCRAPER, GOTHAM - MOMENTS LATER
text: Fox emerges to see Wayne uncovering the Bat... As the sun
text: sets, Fox starts pulling apart the gun mount.
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: She fly pretty well?
speaker_heading: WAYNE
dialog: Even without the autopilot...
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Autopilot? That's what you're there
dialog: for.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM RIVER - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Gordon and the rest of the men stand at the edge of the ice.
text: A Mercenary fires his gun in the air. Gordon takes a breath,
text: then leads his men onto the ice...which creaks and groans...
text: Further out, Gordon stops - sniffs - looks down: a pool of
text: liquid, beside it: a flare. Gordon picks it up, puzzled.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Light it up.
dialog: 139.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Gordon, energized by the familiar voice, lights the flare -
text: jams it into the liquid, sending a trail of FIRE across the
text: ice - up into a building where it forms the shape of a
dialog: BAT...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FOLEY'S BROWNSTONE - CONTINUOUS
speaker_heading: FOLEY'S KIDS
dialog: Dad! Check it out!
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY'S WIFE
dialog: Honey, take a look!
text: Foley moves to a back window. Sees the flaming sign.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: A Mercenary nervously approaches Bane's back.
speaker_heading: MERCENARY
dialog: Sir?
dialog: 
text: Bane turns. The Mercenary points at the sign.
speaker_heading: MERCENARY
dialog: You think it's really him?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Impossible...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. FOLEY'S BROWNSTONE, BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER
dialog: 
text: Foley yanks up the floorboards. Pull his dress blues from
dialog: their hiding place.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. OUTFLOW PIPE, ACKERMAN PARK - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Mercenaries guarding the entrance see the sign. One of them
text: moves out to get a better look. WHAM! He is taken out by a
text: dark figure. The figure steps into the light - it is
dialog: Blake...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM RIVER - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman hands Gordon a metal box.
dialog: 140.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: This blocks the remote detonator
dialog: signal to the bomb. Get it onto the
dialog: truck by sunrise. They might hit
text: the button when it starts.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: When what starts?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: War.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. OUTFLOW PIPE, ACKERMAN PARK - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake takes out a second Mercenary - moves over to the open
text: manhole. Ross emerges - nots at Blake, who helps him climb
text: out. BANG - Ross goes down as Blake dives for cover. Blake
text: is grabbed by Mercenaries. They detonate the manhole,
text: sealing it, prepare to execute Blake. A dark shape drops
text: onto the Mercenaries... Blake watches, in awe, as Batman
text: takes them out in a fury of punches and kicks - then it is
text: finished. Quiet. One of the Mercenaries moves slightly.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You missed a spot.
text: Batman boots him in the head as he moves towards Blake.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: If you're working alone, wear a
dialog: mask.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: No one cares who I am.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: The mask is not for you. It's to
dialog: protect the people you care about.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Huh. And you always seem to know
dialog: where those people are. How is
dialog: that?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I lost someone once. Since then I
dialog: break into their homes when they're
dialog: sleeping and implant a tracking
text: device on the back of their neck.
dialog: 
text: Blake laughs. Then feels the back of his neck. Batman tosses
dialog: Blake a mini-mine.
dialog: 141.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: On three - one, two, three -
text: They throw the mini-mines at the rubble of the entrance -
text: the blasts barely move any rubble.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: No offense, but you got anything
dialog: bigger in that belt?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That's to warn the men on the other
dialog: side.
text: Batman disappears into the shadows.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: But how do we -?
text: KAABOOOM! The Bat's cannons light up the night.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Okay.
dialog: 
text: Cops climb out into the cold night - skinny, ragged, but
text: glad to be alive and carrying guns...
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: What now?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: All-out assault on Bane...but you
dialog: need to get the people you care
text: about across the bridge.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Why?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: In case we fail. Lead an exodus
dialog: across the bridge. Save as many
dialog: lives as you can.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Don't you need me here?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You've given me an army. Now go.
text: Blake nods. Turns to leave. Stops.
dialog: 142.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Thank you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Don't thank me yet.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: I might not get a chance later.
dialog: 
text: Batman nods. Blake disappears into the night.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon checks the metal box. Puts it under his coat. Nods at
text: his men, hiding in the doorways. Checks his GPS...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT
text: Batman leads Catwoman to a rusty old container. He opens it,
text: revealing the Bat-Pod. Catwoman's eyes light up.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Oh, you shouldn't have...
text: She hops on, feeling the controls.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: The mid-town tunnel's blocked by
dialog: debris, but the cannons give you
dialog: enough firepower to make a path for
dialog: people.
dialog: 
text: Catwoman marvels at the controls...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: To start it, you -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: VARROOOM!
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I got it.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: We've got forty-five minutes to
dialog: save this city -
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: No, I've got forty-five minutes to
dialog: get clear of the blast radius,
dialog: because you don't stand a chance
dialog: against these guys.
dialog: 143.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: With your help I might.
dialog: 
text: She shakes her head.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I'll open that tunnel, then I'm
dialog: gone.
dialog: 
text: He looks at her.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: There's more to you than that.
text: She stares back at him. Facade slipping a touch.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Sorry to keep letting you down.
text: He says nothing. She looks at him, imploring.
dialog: Come with me. Save yourself. You
dialog: don't owe these people anymore -
dialog: you've given them everything...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: Not everything. Not yet.
dialog: 
text: Batman turns. Catwoman watches him go. Then fires up the
text: bike and takes off.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS LEADING TO SOUTH TUNNEL - NIGHT
dialog: 
text: Catwoman tears along on the Bat-Pod. She pulls up at the
text: tunnel entrance blocked by stacked vehicles.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREETS - DAWN
dialog: 
text: The army of Cops stands at the low end of the street. At the
text: op is Bane's stronghold - City Hall. Men pour out of the
text: building, forming up into an opposing line.
text: A Cop wearing full dress blues steps forward. It is Foley.
text: The silence is eerie... The numbers look evenly matched -
text: until two Tumblers arrive.
speaker_heading: VOICE
speaker_heading: (OVER LOUDSPEAKER)
scene_heading: DISPERSE. DISPERSE OR BE FIRED
speaker_heading: UPON.
text: The Cops look shaky, pale, but determined.
dialog: 144.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FOLEY
dialog: There's only one police in this
dialog: city.
text: He steps forward. The line follows.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane stands in the colonnade. Watching.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
text: Open fire.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STREET, DOWNTOWN GOTHAM - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The Tumblers FIRE into the line of Cops, THROWING men into
text: the air, SCREAMING. The line of Cops is about to scatter -
text: WHOOOSHHH. The Bat DROPS down in front of the Cops and
text: BLASTS both Tumblers, FLIPPING them sideways. The Bat RISES
text: and the cops run towards the Mercenaries, firing - until
text: they are close enough to fight hand-to-hand. The street is
text: filled with thousands of men in pitched battle.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS LEADING TO SOUTH TUNNEL - CONTINUOUS
text: Catwoman, hearing the distant battle, blasts the tunnel
text: blockage...the dust settles. Her path is clear.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon heard the fighting. Checks the box. Nervous.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Come on, come on...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane strides through the battle, taking out Cops left and
text: right. A space clears - he is face the face with the
dialog: Batman...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You came back. To die with your
dialog: city.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No. I came back to stop you.
dialog: 145.
dialog: 
dialog: 
text: Bane leaps at Batman, smashing powerful blows into his head.
text: Batman ducks, weaves and smashes his fists into Bane's side.
text: Someone is watching from the window of City Hall - Miranda.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: The black truck rounds the corner. Gordon signals his man in
text: a Greyhound bus - who pulls across the street. The truck
text: smashes into the bus and stops. Gordon and his men swarm in,
text: blasting at the Guards. Gordon opens the back - empty. No
dialog: bomb. Wrong truck.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: That's impossible... Come on! Cut
dialog: over to Fifth!
dialog: 
text: They sprint for the next parallel avenue...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Fox hurries into the reactor - starts throwing switches...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. ST. SWITHIN'S HOME FOR BOYS - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake leads the boys out of the home - points down the
dialog: street.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Knock on doors, spread the word -
dialog: the bomb's going to blow! Get out
text: by the South Street tunnel, or over
dialog: the bridge! Do two blocks, then get
dialog: back to the bus!
text: The boys race down the street. Father Reilly climbs into the
dialog: bus.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman and Bane fight, Batman pushing Bane back - a Tumbler
text: roars between them, separating them. Batman chases after.
dialog: 146.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Bane SMASHES backwards through the door, Batman on him.
text: Batman POUNDS Bane against the marble floor. Mercenaries
text: guarding Miranda move towards them -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Stay back. He is mine -
text: Bane SMASHES Batman's head - moves in for the kill, but
text: Batman SMASHES Bane to the ground, RIPS sideways across the
text: tubes of Bane's mask with the blades of his forearm. Bane
text: bellows, thrashing in AGONY. Batman holds him down with a
text: hand on his throat - searches him with his free hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Give me the trigger! You'd never
dialog: give it to an ordinary citizen -
text: Bane's thrashing calms as he stares at Batman through
text: pain-soaked eyes...gasping through his broken mask for
dialog: relief.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I broke you. How have you come
dialog: back?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You thought you were the only one
dialog: who could learn the strength to
dialog: escape?
text: Bane looks at Batman, curiosity behind his pain.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: I never escaped - R's al Ghl
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: rescued me. That is why I must
dialog: fulfill his plan. That is why I
text: must avenge his murder.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
speaker_heading: (CONFUSED)
dialog: The child of R's al Ghl made the
speaker_heading: A U
speaker_heading: CLIMB -
speaker_heading: MIRANDA (O.S)
dialog: But he is not the child of R's al
dialog: A
dialog: Ghl...
speaker_heading: U
text: Batman flinches, frozen as Miranda leans into his ear...
dialog: 147.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: I am.
text: Miranda has a knife through Batman's suit, into his ribs...
dialog: And though I am not 'ordinary', I
dialog: am a citizen...
dialog: 
text: She pulls out the trigger...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH STREET - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon spots the second black truck moving down the street.
text: His men pull in front, slowing it. Gordon jumps into the
text: back. The truck accelerates - Gordon drops, hanging on to
text: the bumper, struggling with the box, trying to turn it on...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman cannot move to defend himself. He has Bane by the
text: throat, but Miranda has her knife in his side -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: MIRANDA/TALIA
dialog: My mother named me Talia before she
dialog: was killed. The way I would've been
dialog: killed if not for my
dialog: protector...Bane.
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: the child, Talia, makes eye-contact with the
text: Protector, then leaps. Down below, Prisoners swarm over the
text: protector, ripping the muslin from his face. Bane looks up
text: at Talia, says one quiet word -
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: Goodbye.
text: Then is overrun.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: I climbed out of the pit...
text: INSERT CUT: Young Talia stands by the hole looking out at
dialog: the landscape...
dialog: I found my father and brought him
dialog: back to exact terrible vengeance -
dialog: but by that time...the prisoners
dialog: and the doctor had done their work
dialog: to my friend...my protector...
text: Talia reaches up to touch Bane's mask.
dialog: 148.
dialog: 
text: INSERT CUT: the League of Shadows descend into the prison -
text: at their head, R's al Ghl. They slaughter prisoners. Then
speaker_heading: A U
text: stop. R's al Ghl has found Bane, bandaged.
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: The League took us in. Trained
dialog: us...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TEMPLE, LEAGUE OF SHADOWS - DAY
text: Bane in a prototype mask, stands on logs, blocking blows
text: from men with sticks.
speaker_heading: TALIA (V.O.)
dialog: But my father could not accept
dialog: Bane.
text: R's al Ghl watches Bane training. Turns away.
speaker_heading: A U
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Talia looks into Bane's eyes as she holds the knife in
dialog: Batman's side.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: He saw only a monster who could
dialog: never be tamed. Whose very
dialog: existence was a reminder of the
dialog: hell he'd left his wife to die in.
dialog: He excommunicated Bane from the
dialog: League of Shadows. His only crime
dialog: was that he loved me. I could not
dialog: truly forgive my father...
text: Talia looks at Batman, cold.
dialog: Until you murdered him.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He was trying to kill millions of
dialog: innocent people -
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: 'Innocent' is a strong word to
dialog: throw around Gotham, Bruce. I honor
dialog: my father by finishing his work.
dialog: Vengeance against the man who
dialog: killed him is simply a reward for
dialog: my patience...
dialog: 
text: Talia twists the knife in Batman's side.
dialog: You see, it's the slow knife...the
dialog: knife that takes its time, the
speaker_heading: (MORE)
dialog: 149.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: TALIA (CONT'D)
dialog: knife that waits years without
text: forgetting, then slips quietly
dialog: between bones...that's the knife -
text: Talia arms the trigger...
dialog: - that cuts deepest.
text: She hits the button - nothing.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FIFTH STREET - CONTINUOUS
text: A light on the metal box is blinking. Gordon hangs on -
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Talia turns, furious.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Your knife may have been too
dialog: slow...
text: A Mercenary steps forward -
speaker_heading: MERCENARY
text: The truck's under attack -
text: Talia looks around, mind racing.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: Gordon. (To Batman.) You gave him a
dialog: way to block my signal. No matter -
dialog: (Looks at watch.) He's bought
text: Gotham eleven minutes. (Shouts at
dialog: Mercenary.) Prepare a convoy. We
dialog: must secure the bomb until it
text: detonates.
text: Talia jumps to her feet. Bane grabs a shotgun from a
text: Mercenary - points it at Batman.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: Not yet... I want him to feel the
dialog: heat. (To Batman.) Feel the fire of
dialog: twelve million souls you failed.
text: Talia reaches up to Bane's mask, reconnects his tubes,
text: tenderly.
dialog: Goodbye, my friend.
text: Bane nods at her, slowly. Talia moves out with the
dialog: Mercenaries.
dialog: 150.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Talia gets into a Tumbler with a Mercenary. Three Tumblers
text: pull out in convoy, blowing anything out of the way - cars,
dialog: cops.
dialog: 
text: Foley stands in the road, firing his sidearm. Talia's
text: Tumbler SMASHES him out of the way.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bane grabs Batman, throws him into the floor - checks the
text: rounds in the barrels.
speaker_heading: BANE
dialog: You'll have to imagine the fire -
dialog: 
text: He shuts the gun - jams it into Batman's face.
dialog: We both know I need to kill you
dialog: now.
text: He squeezes the trigger. BLAMMM! Bane is blasted across the
text: lobby by cannon fire.
text: Catwoman is there, on the Bat-Pod.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: The whole no-guns thing? I don't
dialog: feel as strongly about it as you
dialog: do.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Blake pulls up to the barricade, leads the kids off,
text: marching them up the bridge, Father Reilly at the rear. A
text: Uniform shouts through the loudhailer -
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Stay there! What are you doing?!
speaker_heading: BLAKE
speaker_heading: (PULLS BADGE)
dialog: Blake, MCU - I'm getting these boys
dialog: to safety -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Safety?! You're gonna get us all
dialog: killed. Anyone crosses this bridge
dialog: they blow the city -
dialog: 151.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It's gonna blow anyway. We need
dialog: this bridge open right now.
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: No one leaves the island. Orders -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Whose orders? Bane's?
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Police Department's.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Haven't you heard the shooting? The
text: Batman's battling it out with Bane
dialog: -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: The Batman's dead. Look, Officer -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: It's Detective -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Well, Detective, you take one more
dialog: step, we have to shoot you. Two
dialog: more steps, we have to blow the
dialog: bridge.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: (to the boys)
dialog: Wait for me back at the bus.
text: The Boys walk back down the bridge...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: Talia's convoy surrounds the black truck. Tumblers off each
text: flank, protecting the bomb as it counts down...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LOBBY, CITY HALL - CONTINUOUS
text: Batman looks at Catwoman.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I need you on the ground, me in the
dialog: air, we have to force that convoy
text: east, to the entrance to the
speaker_heading: REACTOR -
dialog: 152.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CITY HALL - MOMENTS LATER
text: Catwoman roars down the steps on the Bat-Pod.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLACK TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon climbs into the back of the truck - the bomb is
text: there, heating up. He looks at the countdown - nine
dialog: minutes...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake turns back to the Uniform.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Your orders are out of date! The
dialog: situation's changed! Listen, I'm a
dialog: cop like you. And I'm walking out
dialog: there. Please don't shoot me.
text: Blake walks. Shots ring out at his feet. He keeps walking...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: The Bat descends on the convoy, Catwoman approaches on the
text: ground. A rolling battle ensues. Catwoman targets the rear
text: of the Tumblers, Batman swings the Bat in low at the
text: junctions, trying to force the convoy east...
text: The Tumbler's gun turrets swing around onto Catwoman. She
text: swerves to avoid heavy fire.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake continues to walk, ignoring the warning shots.
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Son-of-a-bitch! (To his partner.)
text: Blow it! Before he reaches the line
dialog: -
text: His partner arms the detonator. Uniform shouts at Blake -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: UNIFORM
dialog: Get down! We're blowing the bridge!
text: As Blake looks, disbelieving, the bridge in front of him
text: blasts upwards in a massive fireball. Blake dives backwards.
dialog: 153.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: The Bat blasts away in front of the convoy, making a huge
text: crater in front of a Tumbler and trapping it, rear in the
text: air. Catwoman dodges around it, uses the Bat-Pod cannons to
text: take out another Tumbler... The countdown ticks away...seven
dialog: minutes.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: As Fox fires up the reactor something catches his eye -
dialog: something is wrong...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: The smoke clears, Blake sees the impossible gap.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You idiots! You sons of bitches!
dialog: You're killing us!!
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. BLACK TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon climbs out the back of the truck but is immediately
text: strafed by gunfire from the Tumblers. He dives back inside,
text: moves to the front of the trailer - looks at the bulkhead,
text: gauging the driver's position. Starts firing blind through
dialog: the bulkhead -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAB, BLACK TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Bullets fly through the cab. The driver takes one, falls
text: forward, dead. Talia takes the wheel - bullets keep coming.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Blake races back. Father Reilly has the boys in a huddle,
speaker_heading: PRAYING -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Father! Get the boys on the bus -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: But there's nowhere to go, son.
dialog: 154.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
text: The Bat spins down in front of the black truck, forcing it
text: into a hard right turn...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
text: Talia watches the navigation screen.
speaker_heading: TUMBLER DRIVER
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: They're trying to force us onto
speaker_heading: GRAND -
speaker_heading: TALIA
text: Pushing us to the entrance of the
dialog: reactor. They're going to try and
dialog: reconnect the core.
speaker_heading: TUMBLER DRIVER
speaker_heading: (OVER RADIO)
dialog: Can they?
dialog: 
text: Talia smiles.
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Fox runs to a ladder. Alarms sound. As he hits the ladder he
text: turns. A massive rumble builds - water SMASHES into the
text: reactor, flooding in from both directions.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREETS - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Catwoman comes up behind the lead Tumbler. She blasts it
text: again and again - it flips diagonally into the path of the
text: black truck, causing the truck to lurch onto its side. Both
text: vehicles careen into the mouth of the tunnel.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
text: Fox loops his arm around a rung of the ladder and braces as
text: a wave smashes into him, painfully...
dialog: 155.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TUNNEL ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon jumps out of the truck, opening the rear doors to
text: expose the glowing core. Catwoman pulls up on the Bat-Pod.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Give me a hand!
text: The Bat lands at the tunnel mouth. Gordon moves in to try
text: and grab the core but it is too hot.
dialog: Let's get a cable on it and drag it
dialog: out! Come on, we're almost there -
text: Laughter. Gordon turns. Talia, lying half out the truck.
dialog: Dying.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: Fox showed me how to operate the
dialog: reactor core. Including the
dialog: emergency flood -
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. REACTOR PLANT - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Fox pulls himself above the rising whitewater -
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TUNNEL ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon looks down at Talia. Batman is at his side.
speaker_heading: TALIA
dialog: There is no way to stop this bomb.
dialog: Prepare yourselves... (Looks up at
dialog: Batman.) My father's work is done.
dialog: 
text: Talia smiles as her eyes flutter closed. Gordon turns -
text: Batman is at the core, plunging his hands into the heat to
text: attach a hoist from the Bat.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What're you doing?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Two minutes. I can fly it out over
dialog: the bay...
dialog: 
text: Catwoman is at his side as he works.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
text: Rig it out to fly over the water,
dialog: then bail -
dialog: 156.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No autopilot.
text: She takes this in. He stands to face her.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: You could've gone anywhere. Been
dialog: anything. But you came back here.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: So did you.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I guess we're both suckers.
text: She puts her arms around his neck. Kisses him. Batman moves
text: to the Bat, Gordon alongside.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: So this is the part where you
dialog: vanish, only this time you don't
dialog: come back?
dialog: 
text: Batman opens the canopy.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake grabs at the smallest boys, shoving them onto the bus.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Come on! On the bus!
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: What're you doing?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Protection from the blast -
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: It's an atom bomb -!
dialog: 
text: Blake turns on Father Reilly, furious.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: You think they need to hear that in
dialog: their last seconds? You think I'm
dialog: going to let them die without hope?
dialog: 157.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. TUNNEL ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS
text: Gordon puts a hand on Batman's arm.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I never cared who you were -
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And you were right.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: But shouldn't the people know the
dialog: hero who saved them?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: A hero can be anyone. That was
dialog: always the point.
dialog: 
text: Batman sits into the cockpit, then looks again at Gordon.
text: Anyone. A man doing something as
dialog: simple and reassuring as putting a
text: coat around a little boy's
dialog: shoulders to let him know that the
dialog: world hadn't ended...
text: The canopy closes - and as the Bat fires up Gordon remembers
dialog: -
text: INSERT CUT: Gordon, in his uniform, wraps the overcoat
text: around the Young Bruce's shoulders, his eyes reassuring,
dialog: loving.
text: Gordon looks up to the cockpit -
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Bruce Wayne?
text: - but is dusted by downdraft as the Bat RISES. Gordon LEAPS
text: out of the way as the core is dragged along and out of the
text: tunnel mouth.
dialog: 
text: The Bat struggles with the weight of the smoking core... A
text: building is in the way - Batman fights the controls but
dialog: there's no power to get over it.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
text: Blake shouts into the bus -
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Heads down! Heads down, now!
dialog: 158.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: FATHER REILLY
dialog: Blake, they need to make their
dialog: peace.
text: Blake turns to him, furious.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: They're children! They have no
dialog: peace to make -
text: An EXPLOSION from downtown Gotham. Blake looks across,
text: startled, turns to the children on the bus.
dialog: Get down! This is it!
text: The smallest of the boys stares through the window past
dialog: Blake.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LITTLE BOY
dialog: No. That's Batman!
text: Blake turns to see the Bat thundering out of the heart of
text: Gotham, trailing smoke, the core hanging from it. It curves
text: dangerously close to the bridge before heading for the mouth
dialog: of the river...the bay...the ocean...
text: Until a point of light fires into an enormous nuclear BLAST
text: - wind and light and dust blowing VIOLENTLY but harmlessly
text: over the bridge, the tunnel mouth, all of Gotham...
dialog: 
text: As the nuclear dawn fades over Gotham, and we see its
text: inhabitants start to raise their heads, and helicopters and
text: boats converge on the island, we hear a voice. Jim Gordon.
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: 'I see a beautiful city and a
dialog: brilliant people rising from this
dialog: abyss...'
text: Blake pulls out his badge. Throws it into the river.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON (V.O.)
dialog: 'I see the lives for which I lay
dialog: down my life, peaceful, useful,
dialog: prosperous and happy...'
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. GARDENS, WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: Gordon is reading from A Tale of Two Cities. Opposite is
text: Fox, arm in a sling, and Blake, grim. Another figure is
dialog: there, whose face we do not yet see...
dialog: 159.
dialog: 
dialog: 
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: 'I see that I hold a sanctuary in
dialog: their hearts, and in the hearts of
dialog: their descendants, generations
dialog: hence. It is a far, far better
dialog: thing that I do, than I have ever
dialog: done...'
text: Gordon closes the book, looking down at Bruce Wayne's grave.
dialog: 'It is a far, far better rest that
dialog: I go to than I have ever known.'
dialog: 
text: Gordon looks up at the figure standing across from him...
text: Alfred. Tears streaming.
text: Fox places a gentle hand on Alfred's shoulder, then leaves.
text: Gordon and Blake follow. Alfred, alone with the Wayne
text: family, turns to the grave beside Bruce's - the grave of
dialog: Thomas and Martha Wayne.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm so sorry. I failed you. You
dialog: trusted me, and I failed you.
text: And the old man's shoulders begin to shake with sobs.
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. FRONT ENTRANCE, WAYNE MANOR - CONTINUOUS
dialog: 
text: Gordon nods at Lucius. Blake is at Gordon's side.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Can I change your mind about
dialog: quitting the force?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: No. What you said about structures.
dialog: About shackles. I can't take it.
dialog: The injustice. (Gestures at
dialog: gardens.) I mean...no one's ever
dialog: going to know who saved an entire
dialog: city.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: They know. (Off look.) It was
dialog: Batman.
dialog: 160.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. PLAZA, DOWNTOWN GOTHAM - DAY
text: Gordon, on a platform with dignitaries, watches a statue
text: being unveiled. The curtain parts: Batman, immortalized in
text: granite. We move in on the stone face...
dialog: 
speaker_heading: VOICE (V.O.)
dialog: Mr. Wayne's will was not amended to
dialog: reflect his more modest estate...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: The voice belongs to Wayne's lawyer, addressing a small
dialog: group.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Nonetheless, there are considerable
dialog: assets to dispose of... The
dialog: contents of the house are to be
speaker_heading: SOLD -
text: He glances up to see someone slip into the room - Blake.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: Movers carefully bring artworks and furniture out of the
text: house, watched by a solitary figure. Alfred.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LAWYER (V.O.)
dialog: - to settle the estate's accounts.
dialog: The remainder is left in its
dialog: entirety to Alfred J. Pennyworth...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: Blake shifts. Out of place. The Lawyer continues.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
text: The house and grounds are left to
dialog: the city of Gotham, on condition
dialog: that they never be demolished,
dialog: altered, or otherwise interfered
speaker_heading: WITH -
dialog: 161.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: Different movers carry bunk beds into the huge house.
speaker_heading: LAWYER (V.O.)
dialog: And that they shall be used for one
dialog: purpose, and one purpose only...
text: A schoolbus pulls up. Father Reilly shepherds children
text: towards the house. The children look up at the house,
text: wide-eyed.
dialog: The housing and care of the city's
text: at-risk and orphaned children.
text: A sign reads:
text: THE MARTHA AND THOMAS WAYNE HOME FOR CHILDREN
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY
text: People file out as the Lawyer stands.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: My clerk will help anyone with the
dialog: smaller correspondences and
dialog: instructions...
text: Blake approaches the Clerk. She smiles.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Blake, John.
speaker_heading: CLERK
speaker_heading: (CHECKS LIST)
dialog: Nothing here.
text: Blake realizes, offers her his driving license.
speaker_heading: BLAKE
dialog: Try my legal name.
dialog: 
text: The Clerk glances at the license. Checks.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: Yup, here it is.
dialog: 
text: She reaches down behind the desk, sorting through various
text: items, and hands him a sports bag. Blake takes it, curious.
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: You should use your full name. I
dialog: like that name... Robin.
dialog: 162.
dialog: 
text: Blake smiles, embarrassed. Leaves.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Any word on the missing item?
speaker_heading: CLERK
dialog: No, not yet.
speaker_heading: LAWYER
dialog: Well, they'd better leave no stone
dialog: unturned... We can't just put a
text: string of pearls on the manifest as
dialog: 'lost'.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. APPLIED SCIENCES - DAY
text: Fox stands in front of the second camouflage rotor. Two
text: Techs are examining the controls in the cockpit.
speaker_heading: TECH 1
dialog: Why worry about the stabilization
dialog: software? This whole autopilot
dialog: system's obsolete -
speaker_heading: FOX
dialog: Please, I just need to know what I
dialog: could've done to fix it.
speaker_heading: TECH 2
dialog: But Mr. Fox, it's already been
dialog: fixed. (Typed on panel.) Software
dialog: patch...six months ago.
speaker_heading: FOX
speaker_heading: (CONFUSED)
dialog: Check the user ident on the
dialog: patch...
dialog: 
text: Tech 2 types some more keys. Looks surprised.
speaker_heading: TECH 2
dialog: Huh. Bruce Wayne.
dialog: 
text: Fox turns away from the rotor, an idea starting to form...
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY
text: Blake sits in his car looking at a GPS device, puzzled.
text: Beside him, the sports bag, open. In it is a piece of paper
text: with coordinates, on top of some climbing rope and shackles.
text: Blake gets out of the car with the bag. Follows the GPS into
dialog: the trees.
dialog: 163.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CAF, FLORENCE - DAY
text: Alfred, paper under his arm, heads to his usual table. Sits.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Lei e solo?
dialog: 
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Si, Fernet Branca, per cortesia.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. WOODS - DAY
text: Blake finds a large waterfall... He checks his GPS,
text: confused. Stares at the waterfall. Reaches for the climbing
dialog: gear...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MCU - NIGHT
text: Gordon steps onto the roof with his pile of arrest
dialog: reports...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CAF, FLORENCE - DAY
text: As Alfred sips his drink, he glances up at a couple at the
text: next table. Strangers. Alfred looks back down...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAVE - DAY
text: Moving in on the waterfall from inside... Blake bursts
text: through, landing painfully on the shale inside. he gets to
text: his feet, moving cautiously into the cave...
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. MCU - NIGHT
text: Gordon bangs his files against the air duct, straightening
text: them. He stops. Sees something. The searchlight...fixed.
text: Gordon runs his fingers across a brand new, steel Bat
text: symbol... He looks up into the night...
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAVE - DAY
dialog: 
text: Blake lights his torch...then ducks, crouching, as THOUSANDS
text: of SCREECHING creatures descend. BATS...
dialog: 164.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: EXT. CAF, FLORENCE - DAY
text: Alfred folds his paper. Pulls out his money, then stops,
text: seeing...across the tables, a familiar couple... Bruce
text: smiles at Alfred, who nods. Bruce turns back to the pretty
text: brunette in pearls. Selina. Alfred pays his bill, content.
dialog: 
dialog: 
scene_heading: INT. CAVE - DAY
text: Blake lifts his head, FEELING the bats all around him...
text: Blake RISES, and is SWALLOWED by the darkness of their wings
dialog: and we -
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: CREDITS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: October 20, 1986
speaker_heading: FADE IN:
scene_heading: EXT. CITYSCAPE - NIGHT
text: The place is Gotham City. The time, 1987 -- once removed.
text: The city of Tomorrow: stark angles, creeping shadows,
text: dense, crowded, airless, a random tangle of steel and
text: concrete, self-generating, almost subterranean in its
text: aspect... as if hell had erupted through the sidewalks and
text: kept on growing. A dangling fat moon shines overhead, ready
dialog: to burst.
scene_heading: EXT. CATHEDRAL - NIGHT
text: Amid the chrome and glass sits a dark and ornate Gothic
text: anomaly: old City Cathedral, once grand, now abandoned --
text: long since boarded up and scheduled for demolition.
text: On the rooftop far above us, STONE GARGOYLES gaze down from
text: their shadowy, windswept perches, keeping monstrous watch
text: over the distant streets below, sightless guardians of the
text: Gotham night.
text: One of them is moving.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - NIGHT
text: The pulsing heart of downtown Gotham, a neon nightmare of
text: big-city corruption, almost surreal in its oppressiveness.
text: Hookers wave to drug dealers. Street hustlers slap high-
text: fives with three-card monte dealers. They all seem to know
dialog: each other... with one conspicuous exception:
text: A TOURIST FAMILY, Mom, Dad, and little Jimmy, staring
text: straight ahead as they march in perfect lockstep down the
dialog: main drag. They've just come out of a bit show two blocks
text: over; the respectable theatre crowd has thinned out, and
text: now -- Playbills in hand -- they find themselves adrift in
text: the predatory traffic of Gotham's meanest street.
speaker_heading: MOM
dialog: For God's sake, Harold, can we
dialog: please just get a taxi??
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: I'm trying to get a --
dialog: (shouting)
speaker_heading: TAXI!!
text: Three cabs streak pass and disappear. MOM grimaces in
text: frustration as LITTLE JIMMY consults a subway map.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: We're going the wrong way.
text: Nearby, STREET TYPES are beginning to snicker. DAD surveys
text: them nervously, gestures toward the subway map.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: Put that away. We'll look like
dialog: tourists.
text: TWO COPS lean on their patrol car outside an all-night
text: souvlaki stand, sipping coffee and chatting with a HOOKER.
text: The HOOKER smiles at JIMMY. JIMMY smiles back. MOM yanks
text: him off down the street and glowers at DAD.
speaker_heading: DAD (cont.)
dialog: We'll never get a cab here. Let's
text: cut over to Seventh.
speaker_heading: JIMMY
dialog: Seventh is that way.
speaker_heading: DAD
dialog: I know where we are!
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A deserted access street, sidewalks lined with the husks of
text: stripped-down cars. MOM, DAD, and JIMMY take a deep breath
text: and march down the darkened street. A VOICE startles them.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Hey, mister. Gimme a dollar?
text: The VOICE belongs to a DERELICT -- nineteen or twenty,
text: acne-scarred -- who sits between two garbage cans, his palm
text: uplifted. His ratty t-shirt reads: 'I LOVE GOTHAM CITY.'
text: MOM, DAD, and JIMMY pause for the merest of seconds, then
dialog: move on -- pretending not to hear.
speaker_heading: DERELICT
dialog: Mister. How about it. One dollar?
dialog: (standing up)
dialog: One dollar, man. Are you deaf?
dialog: Are you deaf? -- Do you speak
dialog: English??
text: By now the TOURISTS are halfway across the street.
text: Mercifully, the DERELICT doesn't seem to be following.
text: They pick up their pace. They don't see the SHADOWY FIGURE
text: in the alleyway. They don't see the GUN until a gloved hand
text: brings it down, butt-first, across the back of DAD's neck.
text: DAD crumples. MOM grabs JIMMY and backs up against a brick
text: wall, too terrified to scream. The DERELICT races across
text: the street to join his confederate, the STREET PUNK, who's
text: already searching for DAD's wallet.
text: MOM's mouth opens in panic. They can see she's about to
text: snap -- so the STREET PUNK, still in a crouch, trains his
text: gun on JIMMY.
speaker_heading: STREET PUNK
dialog: Do the kid a favor, lady. Don't
dialog: scream.
text: The poor woman is utterly horrified. TEARS stream down her
text: face. But she keeps her wits about her, stifles the urge to
text: shriek, and hustles JIMMY off down the street.
text: The two PUNKS watch them break into a run -- then chuckle,
text: slap hands, race off in the opposite direction.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT
text: Six stories up. The PUNKS -- NICK and EDDIE -- hunker down
text: on the tar-and-gravel roof, sizing up their take.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: (emptying the wallet)
dialog: All right. The Gold Card.
dialog: (tossing the credit card
dialog: in EDDIE's face)
dialog: Don't leave home without it.
text: A chill wind whips across the roof as NICK extracts the
text: cash and begins to count it. There's a distant, indistinct
text: CLANG: metal on metal. EDDIE hears it and tenses up.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: Let's beat it, man. I don't like
dialog: being up here.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: What, scared of heights?
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: I dunno, man. After what happened to
dialog: Johnny Gobs --
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: Look, Johnny Gobs got ripped and
dialog: walked off a roof, all right? No big
dialog: loss.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: That ain't what I heard. That ain't
dialog: what I heard at all.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I heard the bat got him.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: Gimme a break, will you? Shut up...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
text: Five stories, straight down. There
dialog: was no blood in the body.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: No shit. It was all over the
dialog: pavement.
dialog: NICK has no patience with campfire tales -- but here on the
text: roof, in the pale moonlight, he can't ignore the slight
text: tingle at the base of his spine...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: There was no blood, man.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: My brother says... all the bad things
dialog: you done... they come back and
dialog: haunt you...
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: Listen to this. How old are you?
dialog: There ain't no bat.
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: My brother's a priest, man.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: No wonder you're such a chickenshit.
dialog: Now shut up.
dialog: (conclusively)
dialog: There ain't no bat.
text: As they speak our attention shifts to a point at the
text: opposite corner of the roof, some fifteen yards away...
text: where, at the end of a line, a STRANGE BLACK SILHOUETTE is
text: dropping slowly, implacably, into frame...
speaker_heading: EDDIE
dialog: You shouldn'ta turned the gun on
dialog: that kid, man. You shouldn'ta --
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: Do you want this money or don't
dialog: you? Now shut up! Shut up --
text: BOTH PUNKS FREEZE at the sudden, inexplicable sound of
text: BOOTS CRUNCHING ON GRAVEL. They turn slowly. Their JAWS
speaker_heading: DROP.
text: Standing at the edge of the roof, bathed in moonlight, is a
text: BLACK APPARITION. IT DOES NOT MOVE.
text: EDDIE stands rooted to the spot, a choked gurgle in his
text: throat, as if he's just seen his own death. The BLACK
text: FIGURE advances, spreading its arms. Or rather, its WINGS:
text: GREAT BLACK BATWINGS, flapping in the wind.
text: NICK drops to the gravel, gropes for the gun, brings it up.
text: And still the BLACK FIGURE draws closer, deliberate,
text: menacing. On its chest: THE EMBLEM OF A BAT, in an oval
text: yellow field, glowing like a target in the darkness...
text: NICK FIRES TWICE. TWO CLEAN HITS. The strange black figure
text: is knocked bodily to the roof.
text: Trembling, sweating buckets, NICK gets to his feet. He
text: whacks a motionless EDDIE on the arm --
speaker_heading: NICK (cont.)
dialog: I'm gettin' outta here.
text: -- and bends to retrieve his loot. EDDIE lets out a
text: strange, pre-verbal squeal...
text: ... and NICK sees THE HUMAN BAT, BACK ON ITS FEET,
text: NIGHTMARISH, UNDEAD, MOVING SLOWLY AND INEVITABLY CLOSER.
text: Panic. Sheer, raw, unrelenting panic. Stolen money flutters
text: out of NICK's hands. He scuttles around the periphery of
text: the roof, his feet skidding on the gravel as he searches
text: for a way down. The BLACK SPECTRE is blocking his path to
text: the fire escape. Trapped like a rat, NICK FIRES WILDLY.
text: EDDIE is frozen in place, his eyes glazed over, his face
text: drained of blood. The BAT treads calmly past. A LEG snakes
text: out. A BLACK BOOT catches EDDIE high on the chest --
scene_heading: -- LIFTS HIM CLEANLY OFF HIS FEET --
text: -- AND SENDS HIM FLYING THROUGH THE AIR. EDDIE slams into a
text: brick chimney and slumps to the roof unconscious, a broken,
text: weightless puppet.
text: THIS ACTION IS SO SMOOTH, SO AUTOMATIC, THAT THE BAT DOES
text: NOT EVEN BREAK HIS STRIDE. NICK sees his chance and CHARGES
text: past the black wraith, scrambling toward the fire escape...
text: A GLOVED HAND slices through the air, and NICK pitches
text: forward, his legs ensnared in a tangle of WIRES. Screaming
text: now, he drags himself across the gravel roof, the looming
text: figure of the BAT at his heels...
text: ... until there's no place left to go. NICK cowers against
text: the ledge, his pants torn, his hands and knees bloody. He
text: has dissolved into total mindless hysteria.
text: Almost by reflex, NICK keeps shooting. He'd do better if he
text: could manage to open his eyes. By now the hammer is falling
text: on an empty chamber, but NICK continues, obsessively, to
text: pull the trigger. He weeps; he moans; he wails...
text: THE BAT grabs a fistful of NICK's shirt, and with
text: supernatural ease HOISTS HIM into the air.
speaker_heading: NICK (cont.)
dialog: Don't kill me... don't kill me...
text: When NICK finally opens his eyes, he realizes THE BAT is
text: standing on the ledge of the roof -- HOLDING HIM OUT, at
text: arm's length, over six stories of nothingness.
text: The gruesome black apparition speaks, in a rasping whisper:
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I won't kill you. I want you to do
dialog: me a favor.
text: NICK looks down. Far, far below, CARS wink silently past.
text: He looks up. And sees, in the mirrored lenses where
text: BATMAN's eyes should be, the twin reflections of his own
text: stricken face.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Tell your friends. Tell all your
dialog: friends.
text: NICK HOWLS. Almost as an afterthought, THE BATMAN heaves
text: him roughly back onto the roof. And then -- casually,
text: without a moment's hesitation -- STEPS OFF THE LEDGE OF THE
scene_heading: ROOF, INTO MIDAIR.
text: Trembling, NICK crawls to the ledge and looks over...
text: finding ABSOLUTELY NO TRACE of the Batman.
text: NICK is still screaming as we PAN UP to the bilious yellow
text: globe of Gotham's moon. MAIN CREDITS ROLL:
speaker_heading: BATMAN
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM CITY DEMOCRATS' CLUB - NIGHT
text: An oversized CAMPAIGN POSTER fills one wall: "A NEW GOTHAM.
text: HARVEY DENT FOR DISTRICT ATTORNEY". We TILT DOWN to find
text: the man himself, determined, dynamic HARVEY DENT,
text: addressing a crowd from behind his podium.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: ... it is no longer enough to go
dialog: after the small-time punks and petty
dialog: criminals who infest the streets of
dialog: Gotham City. Crime and corruption
dialog: must be attacked at the root!
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - THE AUDIENCE
text: Civic-minded politicos decked out in fund-raiser finery.
text: They applaud DENT's tough talk wildly. They've just shelled
dialog: out $500 a plate for a chicken dinner, and by God they're
dialog: going to enjoy this.
text: Tuxedoed WAITERS move among the tables, deftly refilling
text: water glasses. As they do, we SEE an EMPTY PLACE SETTING --
text: the only one in the hall. Some well-meaning moneybags has
text: laid out half a grand and then neglected to show up.
text: The engraved placecard reads: BRUCE WAYNE.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DENT
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: If elected, my first act as district
dialog: attorney will be to return an
dialog: indictment against Boss Carl
dialog: Grissom!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: A woman's apartment, decorated in pastel pinks and mauves.
text: Original paintings and sculptures everywhere. The place
text: reeks of money.
text: In the foreground: a MAN'S HAND, long, elegant, manicured.
text: Manipulating a DECK OF CARDS, doing a one-handed shuffle
dialog: with extraordinary finesse.
text: In the background: a TV set tuned to the 11 o'clock news,
text: with highlights of HARVEY DENT's campaign speech.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: (on the TV screen)
dialog: Together we can make Gotham city a
dialog: safe place for decent people to live
dialog: and work and play.
text: THE HAND sets the deck on an end table, raps it twice,
text: turns up four aces off the top. This most unusual deck
text: sports a .22 calibre BULLET HOLE straight through the
dialog: middle.
speaker_heading: JACK NAPIER
dialog: Decent people shouldn't live here.
dialog: They'd be much happier someplace
dialog: else.
text: JACK NAPIER, 32, is right-hand man and chief enforcer to
text: Boss Carl Grissom. His features are delicate, almost
text: feminine, and he takes a vain, gangsterish pride in his
text: appearance. He is also absolutely merciless.
text: He trains a cold eye on DENT's televised image as ALICIA
text: HUNT -- 26, beautiful, Carl Grissom's kept woman -- glides
text: over in her negligee and snuggles up.
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: Anything new?
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: The usual gas. If this clown could
dialog: lay a hand on Grissom... I would've
dialog: had to kill him by now.
text: ALICIA finds JACK's necktie draped over a nearby chair. She
text: begins knotting it playfully about his neck.
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: If Grissom knew about us... he
dialog: might kill you.
text: JACK seems uninterested in her affections. His eye darts
text: back and forth between the TV and his own reflection in a
text: nearby vanity.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Don't think so, angel. I'm too
dialog: valuable. That's the way I've
dialog: planned it.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: And besides, he doesn't know.
text: JACK checks his watch, reaches for his topcoat, and stands
text: in front of the vanity. He runs a hand through sculpted
text: hair, checks out his Albert Nipon ensemble.
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: You look just fine, Jack.
text: He smiles at himself before turning to the door.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: ... I didn't ask.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT
text: The scene of the earlier mugging, a half-block off Gotham
text: Square. Only now, the deserted alleyway is a beehive of
text: activity: police cars, an ambulance, a forensics van.
text: EDDIE THE PUNK goes past on a stretcher, catatonic.
text: Watching him are a porcine cop, LT. ECKHARDT, and a POLICE
speaker_heading: MEDIC.
speaker_heading: MEDIC
dialog: That one there won't say a word. The
text: other one's raving his head off.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: Variety, huh? The spice of life.
text: At the mouth of the alley, we find ALEXANDER KNOX --
text: thirty, hyperactive, a crime reporter for the Gotham
text: Gazette. At the moment, he's chatting with a uniformed
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
text: They found him hugging a drainpipe.
text: He was scared to come off the roof.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Great, but tell me: is this another
dialog: you-know-what? 'Cause if so, it's
dialog: the third one this week.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: (testily)
dialog: I dunno. What's "what"?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Good answer. I'm gonna put you in
dialog: for a commendation.
text: KNOX spots ECKHARDT and the MEDIC, waves cheerily, and
text: saunters down the alley. ECKHARDT curses under his breath.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: Oh Christ, it's Knox.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Hiya, gents. This anything I should
dialog: know about?
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
text: Nothing out of the routine.
text: At this exact moment two uniformed PATROLMEN drag a brain-
text: fried NICK past the mouth of the alley.
speaker_heading: NICK
dialog: A bat, I tell you, a giant bat!
dialog: He wanted me to do him a favor...!
text: KNOX tilts one eyebrow. ECKHARDT and the MEDIC trade
text: disgusted looks.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: No offense, boys, but these guys are
text: seeing something up there.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: No comment. Print what you like.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Come on. One question. Is there a
dialog: six-foot bat in Gotham City?
text: KNOX's tone is jokey, but only half-jokey. ECKHARDT snorts
text: in disgust and turns away. KNOX shouts after him:
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: If so, is he on the police payroll?
dialog: If so, what's he pulling down after
dialog: taxes?
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: We pick up LT. ECKHARDT as he emerges onto the side street.
text: He's headed for his car when he spies a STRETCH LIMO idling
text: across the street. Leaning on the hood, waving hi, is the
text: dandyish JACK NAPIER -- flanked by two impressive GOONS.
text: ECKHARDT throws a nervous glance back in KNOX's direction.
text: He turns left, gestures to JACK to meet him farther up the
text: block. By the time he reaches the corner JACK has swaggered
text: up alongside him.
text: ECKHARDT takes a fat brown envelope from JACK and stuffs it
text: quickly in his coat.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You didn't show up.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: We had another bat sighting.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I'm sure that was vitally important.
dialog: Listen: things are heating up.
dialog: Someone is leaking information to
dialog: Harvey Dent.
text: ECKHARDT bristles. There's no love lost between these two.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: I'm doing the best I can. If it's a
dialog: problem --
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Eckhardt... our problems are your
dialog: problems.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: I'll work on it.
text: JACK reaches out and grabs ECKHARDT by the lapels of his
text: topcoat -- an Italian job, obviously expensive. He rubs the
text: material between his fingers.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Very nice, Lieutenant. But a little
text: ostentatious on a cop's salary,
dialog: don't you think?
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: (knocking his hands away)
dialog: I answer to Grissom, punk. Not to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: You're a smart boy, Eckhardt. You
dialog: should be thinking about the future.
text: ECKHARDT laughs in his face.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: Ambition.
dialog: (nodding his head)
dialog: Forget it, Jack. You'll never run
dialog: that organization.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: And why's that?
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: You're a psycho, friend. You're an
dialog: A-one crazy boy and Grissom knows
dialog: it.
text: JACK lashes out and BACKHANDS ECKHARDT across the face. The
text: fat cop, stunned, turns bright red and CHARGES JACK.
text: JACK claps a hand on ECKHARDT's face and shoves him back
text: full-force. The cop sprawls on his ass in the doorway of an
dialog: all-night Cuban-Chinese restaurant.
text: By now PATRONS are staring out of the restaurant windows.
text: ECKHARDT is livid. His hand goes instinctively to his gun.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Here. Use mine.
text: JACK pulls an automatic from his pocket and tosses it in
text: ECKHARDT's lap. He looks down and laughs, daring ECKHARDT
text: to pick it up -- just as the two enormous GOONS from the
text: stretch limo appear behind him for reinforcement.
text: ECKHARDT wipes blood from his mouth as JACK -- an A-one
text: crazy-boy grin on his face -- reaches down for the gun.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont.)
dialog: It's all right, boys. Lt. Eckhardt
dialog: here is a good cop. A real good cop.
dialog: (pause; smiling)
dialog: Inexpensive.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - CITY ROOM - DAY
text: Gotham city's leading tabloid daily. COPY BOYS rush to and
text: fro; REPORTERS pound out articles on computer terminals.
text: ALEXANDER KNOX saunters in, a sheath of typed pages in his
text: hand, and pauses at a CARTOONIST's drawing table.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: What have you got for me, Jerry?
text: JERRY holds up a cartoon: a HUMAN BAT, with an awful,
text: fanged rodent's face, wearing a business suit. The caption
text: at the top reads: "HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN?" KNOX nods in
dialog: approval.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Nice, but... maybe a little more gore
dialog: on the fangs, huh?
text: He pats JERRY on the shoulder, moves on. A BESPECTACLED
text: COLLEAGUE spots him and calls out:
speaker_heading: COLLEAGUE
dialog: Hey Knox, you got a visitor.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: I'm real busy, Clark. Be a pal and
dialog: dust him, okay?
speaker_heading: COLLEAGUE
dialog: This one you might want to dust
dialog: yourself.
text: Curiosity piqued, KNOX moves toward his desk... and stops
text: in his tracks. Propped up on the desk are a PAIR OF LEGS.
text: The legs -- exceptionally nice ones -- are attached to a
text: WOMAN leaning back in KNOX's swivel chair, taking a nap,
text: her face obscured by a big outrageous hat.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: ... Vicki Vale.
text: The hat tips back. VICKI VALE, her face framed by a shock
text: of bright red hair, flashes a dazzling smile. She pulls
text: KNOX over for a quick smooch and laughs.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: How'd you know it was me?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Honey -- I would know any randomly
dialog: selected square inch of Vicki
dialog: Vale.
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: If I had a good enough hint.
text: He points at the oversized CAMERA BAG on his desk. It bears
text: the monogram "V.V." VICKI catches on, makes a face at him.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Where the hell have you been?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: A nice, restful vacation.
text: She reaches into the camera bag and pulls out a stack of
text: glossy 8x10's: COMBAT PHOTOS from some unspecified war-torn
text: corner of the world. KNOX leafs though them, impressed.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: God, a girl could get hurt doing
dialog: this.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I do get hurt.
text: She unbuttons her sleeve, rolls it back to show KNOX a long
text: fresh scar on the inside of her arm. He winces -- then
text: points to the scar and adds, slyly:
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Got any more of those?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Nothing I'm at liberty to reveal
dialog: here. What's new and hot in Gotham
dialog: City?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: It's too good, Vick. We got a six-
text: foot bat that swoops out of the
text: night and preys on evildoers.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (laughing)
dialog: Evildoers, huh? Big or small?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Small so far. I mean -- they don't
dialog: allow bats in boardrooms, do they.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Speaking of which... I hear the
text: notorious Bruce Wayne is throwing a
dialog: big do for the Harvey Dent campaign.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah. Hottest ticket in town. Every
dialog: law'n'order freak in the city's
dialog: gonna be there.
text: KNOX suddenly freezes. It's just occurred to him that VICKI
dialog: may have a purpose in all this.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Wa-a-it. Vicki. You're not saying --
text: She reaches back into her camera bag and hands over an
text: INVITATION. KNOX is all but panting with excitement.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Aw, Vicki. Vicki!
dialog: (apprehensively)
dialog: Got a date?
text: She flutters her great big eyelashes, shakes her head no.
text: KNOX grabs her face and plants a kiss on her forehead,
text: nearly knocking her out of the swivel chair.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Vicki, baby, I love you, I've always
dialog: loved you. Will you marry me?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (straightening her clothes)
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Well, I'm starving. Will you at
dialog: least buy me a hamburger?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Yes, but please -- be gentle.
text: Overwhelmed with glee, he offers her his arm.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE - DAY
text: A HUGE PLATE GLASS WINDOW opens on the best view in Gotham.
text: This spectacular penthouse suite is just one of the power
text: perks available to CARL GRISSOM, kingpin of the Gotham City
text: rackets, fat, fifty, and utterly without charm.
text: GRISSOM, behind a big broad desk, addresses his LIEUTENANTS
text: -- a fearsome assemblage of bloodless white-collar types
text: and few outright goons, sprawled in chairs throughout this
text: makeshift 'boardroom.' The big boss waves a copy of the
text: Gotham Globe -- with HARVEY DENT's face on the cover.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: Nine points ahead in the new poll. I
dialog: don't like the way this is shaping
dialog: up.
text: JACK NAPIER slouches in an easy chair off to GRISSOM's
text: right, doing his trademark one-handed shuffle.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: We can always pop him. -- Or pop
text: someone close to him.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: Let's feed him to the bat.
text: This suggestion draws CHUCKLES from several members of the
text: crowd. GRISSOM is unamused.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: He's going after our front
dialog: companies. Specifically Ace
dialog: Chemical. Which would tie us
dialog: in with Councilman Kane, Senator
text: Miller... on up the line.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: We have to clean out our files
text: before the subpoena comes down.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: How do we go? The usual fire?
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: I'm thinking break-in. Trash the
dialog: office, remove the relevant
dialog: documents...
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: "Industrial espionage."
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: That's right. And Jack --
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I'd like you to handle this
dialog: operation personally.
text: JACK has just turned up the third ace off the top of the
text: deck. His hand freezes in midair.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: ... Me?
text: At this exact moment, METAL DOORS slide back -- and ALICIA
text: HUNT steps out of GRISSOM's private penthouse elevator.
text: She's carrying a handful of SHOPPING BAGS.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: Hello, sweetheart. I wonder if you'd
text: mind waiting in the other room.
text: ALICIA's gaze meets JACK's as she vanishes through a side
text: door. The eye contact is not lost on GRISSOM.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: Why do you need me to handle a
dialog: simple break-in?
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: (emphatically)
dialog: Because I want someone I can
dialog: trust.
text: JACK bridles, but doesn't protest. Nervously, he turns the
text: fourth card off the top of the deck. It's not an ace.
text: It's a JOKER -- a Joker with a neat, round, .22 calibre
text: HOLE through its face.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (cont.)
dialog: We'll work out the details later.
dialog: But it's got to be soon. -- All
dialog: right, that's all for now.
text: GRISSOM'S CRONIES get up to go. JACK, troubled, lingers
text: behind a moment.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (cont.)
dialog: You don't mind, do you Jack? It's an
dialog: important job. I can't trust it to
dialog: somebody who'll screw up.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I understand.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Jack. Don't forget your lucky deck.
text: JACK pockets the deck and leaves. GRISSOM sits behind the
text: big desk and GRINS WOLFISHLY.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (cont.)
dialog: My friend, your luck is just about
dialog: to change.
text: He reaches for the phone. ALICIA appears in the doorway
text: nearby, modeling her new purchases for him. He smiles
text: coolly at her as he speaks into the receiver.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (cont.)
dialog: Get me Lieutenant Eckhardt.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT
text: A vast, rambling mansion on sixty wooded acres a half-
text: hour's drive from Gotham: old money, and how. Out front, a
text: team of red-jacketed VALETS are parking expensive cars.
scene_heading: INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT
text: A DEALER'S HAND pushes cards out of a shoe (the card kind,
dialog: not the Florsheim kind). It's casino night at Wayne Manor;
text: the ballroom has been outfitted with roulette wheels,
text: blackjack tables, etc., and the various members of Gotham's
text: power elite are happily -- and legally -- throwing money
text: into Harvey Dent's campaign kitty.
text: DENT himself is surrounded by a gang of political cronies,
text: telling jokes, calling in favors. VICKI's off in another
text: group, looking luscious, drawing compliments from big shots
text: and envious, furtive glances from their wives. And, in a
text: corner of the room, all alone in his cheap suit, stands
text: ALEXANDER KNOX -- staring inquisitively up at the ceiling.
text: A butler, ALFRED, appears alongside KNOX with a trayful of
text: champagne glasses. He too looks up at the ceiling.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: How high up would you say that is?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'd say about thirty feet, sir.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: You know, if you cut your bathroom
dialog: in half, you'd have my apartment.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Which bathroom is that, air?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: The small one.
text: KNOX takes a drink and ALFRED moves on. A moment later,
text: VICKI detaches herself from her little circle of admirers
text: and hooks up with KNOX.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Man, I feel like Robin Leach. You
dialog: actually know all these people?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Some. I am a rich bitch, remember.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I'm quoting.
text: KNOX winces at the reminder. She smiles and takes his arm.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah, I guess we move in different
dialog: circles. -- Though I did meet a
dialog: one-eyed pimp last week.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON JAMES W. GORDON
text: Gotham's Police Commissioner, a distinguished-looking gent
text: in his late fifties. He's at a craps table, blowing into
text: his fist. ONLOOKERS root him on as he lets the dice fly.
text: Snake eyes. Crapped out. GORDON passes the dice as KNOX and
text: VICKI wander up alongside him.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Commissioner Gordon! What do you
dialog: hear from our pointy-eared friend?
text: KNOX puts his hands up behind his head and wiggles his
text: fingers -- like little bat ears. GORDON groans.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Knox, for the ninth time, and you
dialog: can quote me -- there is no bat.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Aww, Commissioner. There's gotta be
text: one honest cop in Gotham city.
text: HARVEY DENT is working the room. He ambles up, claps a
text: friendly hand on GORDON's shoulder.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: How's your luck, Jim?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Mr. Dent. What's your stand on
dialog: winged vigilantes?
text: DENT exchanges a meaningful look with GORDON.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Mr. Knox, I think we have enough
dialog: real problems in this city without
dialog: worrying about ghosts and goblins
dialog: and Halloween characters.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL CO. ESTABLISHING - NIGHT
text: A NEON SIGN reads: "ACE CHEMICAL. FOR A MODERN TOMORROW."
text: From the SIGN we pan over to a METAL SLUICE GATE -- dumping
text: TONS of CHURNING TOXIC SLUDGE into Gotham's East River.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: TIGHT ON the rear-view mirror. JACK NAPIER is meticulously
text: applying BLACK CAMOUFLAGE PAINT to his face. He could be
text: getting ready for a date.
text: The van is parked outside a chain-link fence which
text: surrounds the Ace Chemical complex.
scene_heading: JACK'S POV - THROUGH WINDSHIELD
text: The SECURITY GUARD in a glass booth at the entrance to the
text: parking lot. ONE OF JACK'S BOYS creeps up behind the booth
text: and takes the GUARD out.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - ON JACK
text: He turns the key in the ignition, shifts into first.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: KNOX and VICKI are taking an unauthorized tour of BRUCE's
text: house, wandering through rooms decorated in wildly
text: divergent motifs, eyeing an astounding collection of
text: artworks and antiques from every corner of the world.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: My question is, where does one man
dialog: get all this junk.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: All over the world. They say he
dialog: spends most of the year overseas --
dialog: until recently, anyway.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Holy shit...
text: KNOX goes goggle-eyed as they enter the LIBRARY.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S LIBRARY - NIGHT
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: ... We found the arsenal.
text: One wall is lined to the ceiling with leather-bound
text: volumes. On the other walls hang EXOTIC WEAPONS. Halberds.
text: Maces. Blowguns. Bolas. Thugee ropes and samurai swords...
dialog: every arcane implement of death the human mind has ever
text: devised. KNOX lets out a low whistle.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: This guy has just gotten
dialog: interesting. What else do you know?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Just what I've heard. Rich.
dialog: Reclusive. Old money and lots of it.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Likes to kill?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Women find him magnetic.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: I bet they like him for his big
dialog: charity balls.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: That, and the sweet smell of two
dialog: hundred million bucks.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Well, you know me. The more they've
dialog: got, the less they're worth.
dialog: (scanning the room)
dialog: This guy must be the most worthless
dialog: man in America.
text: Just then, A VOICE FROM BEHIND intrudes.
speaker_heading: BRUCE WAYNE
dialog: You disappoint me. Why not the
dialog: world?
text: KNOX turns. We get our first good look at the smiling face
text: of BRUCE WAYNE: 32, tall, athletic, impeccably mannered...
dialog: and intensely handsome.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: I assume in my usual charming manner
dialog: I've just insulted the host.
dialog: (extending a hand)
dialog: Alexander Knox.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Bruce Wayne. -- I've read your work.
dialog: I quite like it.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Great. Give me a grant.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I might consider it if you introduce
dialog: me to Miss Vale.
text: KNOX blinks at VICKI. BRUCE already seems to know who she
text: is. KNOX shrugs and forges bravely ahead:
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: "This is Miss Vale." -- That felt
dialog: redundant.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
speaker_heading: (to VICKI)
dialog: You're just back from Corto Maltese.
dialog: I saw your combat photos. Quite a
dialog: departure for you.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: That's intriguing. They haven't been
dialog: published yet.
text: BRUCE smiles and ignores the implied question.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ... You have an extraordinary eye.
text: He's laying on the charm now. KNOX, his territorial
text: instincts aroused, pipes up:
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Some people think she has two.
text: VICKI shoots KNOX a sidelong glance:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Don't mind my friend. He's a little
dialog: nervous tonight.
text: KNOX, chastened, calls off the dogs and sizes up his
dialog: competition. BRUCE is charming, all right, but there's
text: something formal, maybe even calculating about it -- he
dialog: could be reading his clever remarks off cue cards. It's
text: almost as though he's an actor doing a brilliant imitation
dialog: of charm.
text: This is a man who thinks three moves ahead. KNOX doesn't
text: like him. But VICKI -- who's used to seeing male charm
text: turned on and off, at will -- doesn't seem to mind at all:
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: This is an amazing house. I'd love
dialog: to shoot it sometime.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't... seek publicity. -- Will
dialog: you be staying in Gotham for a
dialog: while?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: As far as I know.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good. Then with any luck we'll run
dialog: into each other.
text: Suddenly ALFRED, the butler, appears in the doorway behind
text: them. He clears his throat. BRUCE turns.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Excuse me, sir. Commissioner Gordon
dialog: was compelled to leave -- very
dialog: unexpectedly. He asked me to convey
dialog: his regrets.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Thank you, Alfred.
speaker_heading: (to VICKI)
dialog: I hope you'll excuse me. It was a
dialog: great pleasure meeting you.
speaker_heading: (to KNOX)
dialog: And you.
text: Without bothering to shake hands BRUCE does a sharp 180 and
text: strides hurriedly out of the room.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: I know the rich are different, but
dialog: that guy is real different.
text: VICKI, staring off after BRUCE, doesn't seem to hear him.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Hello? Vicki?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh. Sorry. I was thinking.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: What were you thinking?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Yum, yum.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Well, he must like the way he
dialog: looks. He's got a mirror in every
dialog: room.
text: And indeed, the two of them are standing before an enormous
text: WALL MIRROR, eight feet wide, running from floor to
dialog: ceiling.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I get it. Bruce Vain.
text: She pokes KNOX. He groans at the dumb pun. And suddenly we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - THROUGH THE MIRROR
text: looking DOWN ON KNOX and VICKI -- THROUGH ONE-WAY GLASS --
text: as they continue to chat. Behind the mirror... recording
text: everything that happens in the room... is a small, silent,
text: state-of-the-art SURVEILLANCE CAMERA.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - VIDEO MONITOR
text: showing KNOX and VICKI in the library. CAMERA PULLS BACK to
text: reveal that the screen we're watching is only one in a
text: whole vast bank of video monitors. From this control
dialog: center, we can see everything that's happening in the
dialog: house.
text: Now we ZERO IN on a single screen: GUESTS moving backward,
text: with exaggerated speed, as a videotape REWINDS.
text: At the panel, BRUCE WAYNE hits a button. And now we see
text: COMMISSIONER GORDON talking to a uniformed POLICEMAN.
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: ... anonymous tip. Tonight. The Ace
dialog: Chemical Company.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (obviously agitated)
dialog: Good Lord, it we could put our hands
dialog: on Jack Napier... Why wasn't I told
dialog: about this? Who's in charge of
dialog: the --
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: Lt. Eckhardt, sir.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Eckhardt. Oh my God...
text: And suddenly COMMISSIONER GORDON is grabbing for his coat.
text: The monitor goes black. BRUCE reaches up, loosens his tie.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL CO. - PARKING LOT - NIGHT
text: UNMARKED POLICE CARS are pulling into the lot, headlights
text: off. ECKHARDT circulates among his ARMED SWAT TEAM, handing
text: out xeroxed copies of a PHOTOGRAPH.
text: The PHOTOGRAPH is a full-face shot of JACK NAPIER.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: Shoot to kill.
scene_heading: INT. ACE CHEMICAL - FILE ROOM - NIGHT
text: SPARKS FLY. A SAFECRACKER, in welder's mask, trains a
text: blowtorch on the office safe. Behind him, JACK'S HOODS are
text: at work on the filing cabinets.
text: The SAFECRACKER kills his blowtorch and opens the metal
text: door of the safe, giving JACK a good look at its contents:
speaker_heading: SAFECRACKER
dialog: ... Empty.
speaker_heading: HOOD I
dialog: Just like the file cabinets.
speaker_heading: HOOD II
dialog: I don't get it. If this place is
dialog: cleaned out already, what do we need
dialog: five men?
text: JACK shakes his head. His boys are antsy, ready to mutiny.
text: By now it's depressingly obvious: they've been set up.
text: Then, as if they needed any proof -- a SIREN blares
dialog: outside.
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL - NIGHT
text: ECKHARDT'S SWAT TEAM goes wide-eyed as a CONVOY OF POLICE
text: BLACK-AND-WHITES roars into the Ace parking lot. UNIFORMED
text: COPS pile out of their squad cars, relieving the SWAT TEAM.
text: ECKHARDT goes livid as COMMISSIONER GORDON approaches.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: What are you trying to do, blow the
dialog: collar?
speaker_heading: GORDON
speaker_heading: (to SWAT TEAM)
dialog: You men are dismissed. We'll take
dialog: over from here.
speaker_heading: (to UNIFORMED COPS)
dialog: Any man who opens fire on Jack
dialog: Napier... will answer to me.
text: ECKHARDT tries to slink off. GORDON grabs him roughly.
speaker_heading: GORDON (cont.)
dialog: You. Stick around.
scene_heading: INT. ACE CHEMICAL - THAT MOMENT
text: JACK and his HOODS ducking out of the office. It's two
text: stories above the refinery floor, accessible by a network
text: of steel ladders and CATWALKS running between the walls.
text: Down below, a CORRUGATED METAL DOOR begins to rise.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Freeze!
text: One hood goes into a crouch and OPENS FIRE. Half of his
text: colleagues dive back into the office, looking for a rear
text: exit. The others take off across the CATWALKS.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON GORDON
text: standing in the doorway as his MEN rush into the building
text: and take their places behind heavy machinery. SHOTS RING
text: OUT as the HOODS scatter.
speaker_heading: ECKHARDT
dialog: (snidely)
dialog: Nice work, Commissioner.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'm in charge here. Not Carl
dialog: Grissom.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - THAT MOMENT
text: TWO HOODS run down a tiled corridor in the office section
text: of the complex. They're almost at the end of the hall when
text: a CAPED BLACK SHADOW steps into their path.
text: It stands there, motionless. EXTENDS ITS ARMS -- like giant
text: WINGS -- revealing the yellow-and-black insigne on its
text: massive chest. BATMAN.
text: One millisecond later, the shocked HOODS are racing back in
text: the opposite direction.
text: THE BATMAN flings a handful of STEEL BALL-BEARINGS across
text: the tiled floor. HOOD I tumbles to the floor and lands
text: hard, losing his breath. HOOD II rolls and pulls a GUN.
text: BATMAN hurls a BOOMERANG -- its edges scalloped, like a
text: bat's wing. HOOD II finds his gun hand PINNED TO THE WALL
text: by the twin prongs of the BATARANG.
text: THE BATMAN strides briskly toward them, businesslike,
text: taking his time. He grabs a handful of HOOD I's hair, lifts
text: his head off the floor, KNEES HIM IN THE FACE.
text: He turns to the petrified HOOD II. CHROME-STEEL TALONS
text: spring out of his fingertips. He strolls past HOOD II,
text: reaching out casually to give him a QUICK NICK on the chin.
text: HOOD II slumps against the wall, unconscious.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON JACK
text: down on the floor, racing along a wall, THROWING SWITCHES
dialog: -- anything to create a diversion. With every switch he
text: throws, ANOTHER GIGANTIC MACHINE roars to life. CENTRIFUGES
text: SPIN. HUGE POLYMER EXTRUDERS spit out thick strands of
text: plastic gunk. OVERHEAD CHEMICAL TANKS rotate into place
text: over giant basins.
text: JACK SEES a squad of COPS on his tail, moving from machine
text: to machine, keeping covered. He SHOOTS AND RUNS.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CATWALKS
text: BLASTING AWAY, HOODS III and IV scuttle across the elevated
text: walkways, keeping down, avoiding police fire. One of them
text: starts up a vertical ladder leading to the next catwalk up.
text: BATMAN plunges past on the end of a rope. A BLACK-GLOVED
text: HAND snatches at HOOD III's collar as he climbs and YANKS
text: HIM CLEANLY OFF THE LADDER. They drop to the lower catwalk.
text: HOOD IV gapes. He LEVELS HIS GUN at BATMAN, who stands his
text: ground, holding onto the rails of the catwalk for support.
text: A bullet hits him squarely in the chest. He does not fall.
text: HOOD IV turns and scrambles. BATMAN goes to his belt for a
text: miniature SPEAR GUN. He points it at HOOD IV and FIRES...
text: planting a BARBED HOOK in the HOOD'S LEG.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON COPS
text: staring up in utter disbelief at the action on the catwalk.
speaker_heading: COP
speaker_heading: LOOK!
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: My God... it's him.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CATWALK
text: HOOD III, on his feet now, charges BATMAN from behind.
text: BATMAN -- not even turning to face him -- DROPS HOOD III
text: with an ELBOW. Now he has a HOOD on either side.
text: He takes a STEEL BILLY CLUB from his belt, whips it once
text: through the air. It telescopes out into a FOUR-FOOT STAFF.
text: Like a drum majorette from hell, he WHIRLS THE STAFF as the
text: HOODS CONVERGE on him. HOOD III takes a debilitating JAB
text: UNDER THE JAW. BATMAN SPINS on his heels and SLAMS THE
text: STAFF into HOOD IV's BACK -- knocking him OFF THE CATWALK
text: to the factory floor forty feet below!
scene_heading: INT. ACE LOADING BAY - THAT MOMENT
text: JACK spots a possible out. He hits a button on the wall;
text: STEEL DOORS RISE to reveal ACE CARGO TRUCKS in the parking
text: lot outside. Beyond the trucks... AN ARMY OF COPS waiting
text: for JACK to make his move.
text: No go. He turns. Behind him, other cops -- the inside team
text: -- are rushing at him in full riot gear. JACK ducks behind
text: a forklift and darts into the adjacent room.
scene_heading: INT. CHEMICAL SUPPLY ROOM - A MOMENT LATER
text: JACK sprints through the room, firing FOUR SHOTS at the
text: metal CHEMICAL TANKS on the wall. TOXIC CHEMICALS gush out
text: onto the floor in streams. The streams run together...
text: begin to SMOKE and SIZZLE.
text: COPS RIGHT BEHIND HIM. JACK can't resist taking one last
text: pot-shot at a FIFTH CHEMICAL TANK.
text: AN EXPLOSION knocks him off his feet.
scene_heading: INT. FACTORY FLOOR - A MOMENT LATER
text: COPS LOOK ON IN PUZZLEMENT as a RIVER OF CHEMICALS courses
text: out into the main refinery. A second later, they go UP IN
text: FLAMES. A WALL OF FIRE bisects the factory floor.
text: JACK RACES ALONG behind the spreading wall of flame. The
text: cops can't see him now. He ducks behind a huge machine,
text: hits a switch -- and SLUICE GATES OPEN. CHEMICAL SLUDGE
text: begins to churn. A big HOLE IN THE WALL appears as a gate
dialog: opens on the East River. It's the waste dump!
text: Up on the catwalk, BATMAN has a perfect view of JACK. If
text: JACK can just sprint through the flames without getting
text: shot, he'll make it to the river. BATMAN hooks a rope to
text: his Batarang, FLINGS IT at a catwalk across the floor.
text: JACK bolts. BURSTS THROUGH the wall of fire. And just as he
dialog: does --
text: BATMAN leaps off the catwalk and swings down toward him!
text: His foot catches a THIRTY-FOOT ROLL of plastic, six feet in
text: diameter, one of several standing upright on the floor. The
text: plastic roll DROPS into JACK's path, BLOCKING HIS EXIT.
text: An instant later, BATMAN lands on top of JACK. Wraps an arm
text: around his throat and RAISES his free hand. DRUG-TIPPED
text: STEEL TALONS appear. But before he can paralyze JACK...
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: HOLD IT!
text: In all the ruckus, HOOD V has managed to circle back behind
text: the heavy machinery. Now he's got a GUN pointed DIRECTLY AT
scene_heading: COMMISSIONER GORDON'S HEAD.
speaker_heading: HOOD V
dialog: Let him go or I'll do it.
text: BATMAN releases JACK and stands back. JACK chuckles to
dialog: himself: what loyalty. Then, with plenty of time, he
text: strolls across the floor to a Jacob's ladder mounted on the
text: back wall... and BEGINS TO CLIMB toward the catwalks.
text: All action stops. BATMAN doesn't move. The COPS don't move.
text: HOOD V stands there sweating, his gun hand shaking as he
text: waits for JACK to climb safely out of shooting range.
text: ECKHARDT's pig-like eyes glisten. His hand drops to his
text: side. He's half-tempted to pull a gun and get the
dialog: Commissioner plugged.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON JACK
text: at a crouch, groping his way along the rail of the catwalk.
text: He reaches a paneled glass window propped open by a
text: supporting rod. It's a forty-foot drop to the swirling
text: black currents of the East River... and freedom.
text: He's about to climb out when his eye falls on a .38
text: AUTOMATIC -- which lies, abandoned, on the gridwork floor
text: of the catwalk mere yards away.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON FACTORY FLOOR
text: The HOOD, one arm around GORDON. With his gun at the
text: Commissioner's temple, he backs slowly toward the door.
speaker_heading: HOOD V
text: Nobody makes a move. We go out
dialog: clean.
speaker_heading: JACK'S VOICE
dialog: ECKHARDT!!
text: ALL EYES TURN to the catwalk overhead, where JACK stands
text: poised with the .38 in his fist. A SINGLE SHOT drops
text: ECKHARDT cleanly.
text: The moment's distraction is all BATMAN needs. He hurls a
text: NINJA WHEEL -- a small, ratcheted, razor-sharp disc -- at
text: the FOREARM of HOOD V. One jerk of a thin filament WIRE --
text: a sudden SHRIEK -- and GORDON IS FREE.
text: The THUG lurches forward. His GUN DROPS to the floor,
scene_heading: DISCHARGING ACCIDENTALLY.
text: AN UNGODLY HOWL OF PAIN echoes out from the catwalk above.
text: JACK REELS and STAGGERS, his hands CLUTCHING AT HIS CHEEKS.
text: BLOOD GUSHES from between his fingers.
text: JACK NAPIER HAS BEEN SHOT THROUGH THE FACE.
text: A YOUNG COP, unnerved by the sight of JACK's agonized
text: pirouette, draws his gun and OPENS FIRE.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: NO!!
text: But the bullet has caught JACK in the arm. He spins,
text: totters to the edge of the catwalk... and TOPPLES OVER. The
text: COPS look on helplessly as JACK plunges TWO STORIES DOWN
text: into a CATCH BASIN full of BUBBLING TOXIC WASTE, SCREAMING
text: ALL THE WAY.
speaker_heading: GORDON (cont.)
dialog: Goddammit, we had him. We --
text: And suddenly, with JACK out of the picture, all attention
text: focusses on THE BATMAN. COPS reach for their guns, circle
text: warily around him. Cornered now, he backs off slowly, HANDS
text: ON HIS BELT.
speaker_heading: GORDON (cont.)
dialog: Hold it right there, Mister.
text: THE BATMAN raises his hands in a gesture of surrender. Then
text: -- as the COPS advance -- he flicks TWO TINY CAPSULES onto
text: the factory floor.
text: A BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHT. COLORS BURST in a wild
text: pyrotechnic display. COPS stumble backwards, momentarily
text: dazzled, as a THICK WALL OF BLACK SMOKE conceals BATMAN
dialog: from view.
text: A TINY GRAPPLING HOOK rockets out of the dense curling
text: cloud and CATCHES on a catwalk overhead.
speaker_heading: COP
speaker_heading: LOOK!
text: The COPS are firing wildly into the smoke. But it's too
text: late. At the end of a cord, THE BLACK MAJESTIC FIGURE OF
text: THE BATMAN whips upward, rising out of the smoke like an
text: avenging angel -- and DISAPPEARING into the shadowy
text: heights, safely out of range.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: HOLD YOUR FIRE!
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: ... Who is this guy?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I don't know, but he's one hell of a
dialog: showman.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL CO. - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A BLACK SHADOW scurries across the roof. From the
text: illuminated sign with its neon ace, WE PAN DOWN past the
text: chemical sluice to a SECOND ACE... a card from JACK's lucky
text: deck, pierced by a neat, round bullet hole, bobbing on the
text: oily surface of the foul, polluted river.
text: As deadly toxins gush forth, OTHER CARDS from the deck
text: swirl past: a nine. A deuce. A queen. And finally, a JOKER
scene_heading: -- SHOT CLEANLY THROUGH THE FACE.
text: A BONE-WHITE HAND BREAKS THE SURFACE as we
scene_heading: SHOCK CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - CITY ROOM - DAY
text: A BANNER HEADLINE on the late edition of the Globe: "BAT
text: MAN FOILS ROBBERY. WHO IS MASKED VIGILANTE?"
text: Behind the newspaper, feet propped up on his desk, is a
text: jubilant KNOX. He's on the horn to COMMISSIONER GORDON.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Commissioner. Do us both a favor.
dialog: Don't tell me some lie you'll have
dialog: to retract later.
text: CLICK. KNOX grins, lowers the paper, finds himself looking
text: up at the smiling face of VICKI VALE.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Vick! Looks like our friend the bat
dialog: is getting ambitious. -- Why the
dialog: dopey grin?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Guess who's got a date with Bruce
dialog: Wayne.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Bruce Wayne? Date? He called you up
dialog: and asked you for a date?... Shit.
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: HEY MIRANDA! C'MERE!
speaker_heading: (to VICKI)
dialog: I want you to pay close attention to
dialog: this. Miranda -- tell my friend here
dialog: what you told me about Bruce Wayne.
text: A SUPERANNUATED SOUTHERN BELLE toddles over. MIRANDA REITZ,
dialog: 60, is the society editor of the Globe.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: You mean Mister One-Nighter?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah. "Mister One-Nighter."
speaker_heading: (to VICKI)
dialog: Because that's the average length of
dialog: his relationships with women.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: The current record is almost two
dialog: weeks. That cover girl -- what's her
dialog: name? You must've shot her, Vicki --
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Tell her about the peanuts.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Peanuts?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah. Peanuts. Which is how he goes
dialog: through women.
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: Like Planter's Peanuts.
text: VICKI is about to break out into helpless giggles.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Plain or roasted?
dialog: (standing up)
dialog: Alex, I'm very flattered that you've
dialog: gone out and done all this research.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Why?
dialog: (blushing suddenly)
dialog: Aw, come on, Vicki, I'm a reporter.
dialog: I'm curious. I do this for a living.
dialog: -- What'd you tell him?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I told him yes.
text: KNOX fumes. VICKI shakes her head and laughs. She takes
text: KNOX's face in her hands, plants a kiss on his forehead.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: You're awfully sweet to be
dialog: concerned, but it's really not
dialog: necessary. I'll call you, okay?
text: She exits. KNOX stands there looking poleaxed.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: ... What was that?
speaker_heading: MIRANDA
dialog: That was one of the most gracious
dialog: fuck-yous it's ever been my pleasure
dialog: to watch. -- What a nice girl.
text: KNOX, totally flustered, sighs and sinks into his chair.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Miranda, I'm busy. Go be productive.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. COASTLINE - DAY
text: A CABIN CRUISER slices through the waves. In the distance,
text: closer to the shore, we see a throng of SAILBOATS.
scene_heading: EXT. DECK - YACHT - DAY
text: BRUCE's forty-foot cabin cruiser, aptly christened "DIE
text: FLEIDERMAUS." BRUCE and VICKI are on the deck, in chairs,
text: soaking up sun, gazing off at the sailboats.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Do you sail?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Too much work. I'm not really the
dialog: physical type. -- Thank you, Alfred.
text: ALFRED has just appeared from belowdecks with a tray of
text: drinks for BRUCE and VICKI. VICKI watches as BRUCE reaches
text: for his glass. His forearm looks like a thin layer of skin
text: over braided telephone cables.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You do a very convincing imitation.
dialog: (sipping her drink)
dialog: Mm, this is tasty. What's yours?
text: He smiles, slides the drink over toward her, gestures for
text: her to try a sip.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: ... Ginger ale?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Two drinks and I start swinging from
text: the rooftops.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Tell me, Vicki. There's something
dialog: I'm very curious about. What took
dialog: you down to Corto Maltese?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... I guess I needed a change.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You were one of the most successful
text: magazine photographers in the city.
dialog: Everyone wanted you.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Have you ever been to Corto Maltese?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not since the shooting started.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: We went there once when I was
dialog: little. I played on the beach. And
dialog: at nights -- they had a band -- I
dialog: danced with my father on the hotel
dialog: patio.
dialog: (shrugging)
dialog: That was Corto Maltese. When the war
dialog: broke out I had to go back. And I
dialog: promised myself that this time... I
dialog: wouldn't look away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What did you see?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... Terror.
text: The conversation is getting rather intense -- at both ends.
text: VICKI seems to have hit some weird chord within BRUCE.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's terror everywhere. Some
dialog: types are just more -- familiar
dialog: than others.
text: For a moment BRUCE seems to be drifting back into his
text: familiar 'preoccupied' mode. VICKI laughs apologetically.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to -- I
dialog: know it all seems a million miles
dialog: away, out here on the water, with
dialog: all this --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Insulation?
text: VICKI is momentarily stuck for a reply. In some way she
text: can't quite grasp, he seems to be challenging her.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Bruce, really, when I say these
dialog: things I don't mean to criticize
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I think you see things very clearly.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm happy to talk about something
dialog: else. I don't want to be depressing.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Do you assume that if I know you
dialog: better I won't like you as much?
text: VICKI starts laughing. BRUCE is a notorious womanizer, but
text: if this is a come-on, it's like no come-on she's ever seen.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm sorry, Bruce, I have to ask. Are
dialog: you like this with the other women
dialog: you know? -- Because I just can't
dialog: seem to get a handle on this
dialog: conversation.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (taking her hand)
dialog: Vicki, if I say anything cryptic, or...
dialog: ambiguous, I think you should put
dialog: the most flattering possible
dialog: interpretation on it. Because even
dialog: if it doesn't sound that way...
dialog: that's how I'll mean it.
dialog: Bingo. The guy's a chessplayer, but on the other hand he's
text: also rather touchingly, almost childishly, sincere. Before
text: she knows it, VICKI finds herself melting.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM CITY OPERA HOUSE - NIGHT
text: Rigoletto. THE DUKE onstage, launching into his big
dialog: crowd-pleaser, "La Donna e Mobile."
text: WE PAN THE AUDIENCE, finding several mobile young DONNAS in
text: the crowd -- drop-dead beauties in slinky gowns. Although
text: most eyes are fixed, reasonably enough, on the stage, DONNA
text: #1 is staring with undisguised envy at a PRIVATE BOX above
text: the orchestra seats. Her mouth twists in disgust.
text: She scans the crowd, finds her counterpart (DONNA #2) some
text: rows back, on the arm of a bald bigwig. DONNA #2 is wearing
text: a similar sour expression, staring up at the same box.
text: DONNA #3 is even less discreet than her comrades. She has
text: her opera glasses trained on the couple in the box.
scene_heading: HER POV - THROUGH OPERA GLASSES - THE BOX
text: BRUCE and VICKI. He whispers in her ear. She smiles and
text: whispers back.
text: A beat. He whispers again. This time she doesn't laugh. But
text: her lips part slightly. SCREEN GOES BLACK as the opera
text: glasses SNAP SHUT.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CROWD - DONNA #3
text: staring icily at the DUKE as he finishes up to a round of
scene_heading: TUMULTUOUS APPLAUSE.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: BRUCE and VICKI enter. He takes her coat, drops it on a
text: chair by the door. VICKI is giddy, all champagned up.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: -- but it's not fair. I'm half
dialog: drunk and you're not even --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Would you like me to take you home?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: God. You would.
dialog: (sidling up to him)
dialog: Come on, Bruce. I just want to get
dialog: two drinks in you. As an
dialog: experiment.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Maybe we should just kiss.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... We could try that.
speaker_heading: WIDER ANGLE
text: BRUCE embracing VICKI in the vastness of the darkened entry
text: hall, framed by long semicircular STAIRWAYS on opposite
text: walls. A SUDDEN FLASH OF LIGHTNING transports us to:
scene_heading: EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT
text: Broken windows, graffiti on the walls: a decrepit rathole
text: near the Gotham docks.
scene_heading: INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: TIGHT ON a face swathed in bandages. The patient sits erect
text: in a wooden chair, surrounded by the grimy paraphernalia of
text: an unlicensed gangland doctor.
text: The DOCTOR, a nervous little ferret with the bedside manner
text: of a back-alley abortionist, steps up with a scissors.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: Well, Mr. Napier, let's see how we
dialog: did.
text: He begins to snip away. As the bandages come off, we get:
speaker_heading: JACK NAPIER'S POV
text: The last strands of gauze peel away. The DOCTOR stands
text: there, looking at his handiwork. His mouth falls open. His
text: eyes bug out. He GAGS.
speaker_heading: JACK (V.O.)
dialog: Mirror.
text: The DOCTOR just stands there staring AT CAMERA, stock-
text: still, apparently transfixed by the sight of JACK's face.
speaker_heading: JACK (V.O.)
dialog: Mirror.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DOCTOR
text: He clears his throat, reaches apprehensively for a hand
text: mirror, and passes it out of frame to JACK. Two beats.
text: Then, the sound of GLASS SHATTERING as the mirror drops to
dialog: the floor.
text: JACK begins to laugh. THE DOCTOR gets a little edgy.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
dialog: You understand the facial muscles
dialog: were completely severed --
text: JACK keeps on laughing.
text: The DOCTOR turns uneasily away, gestures apologetically at
text: his seedy equipment.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR (cont.)
dialog: -- you can see what I have to work
dialog: with here --
text: MORE LAUGHTER. The trembling DOCTOR covers his face with
text: one hand, whining now, not daring to look at JACK.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR (cont.)
dialog: I'm sure that with proper recon--
dialog: recon-- reconstructive surgery --
text: A DOOR SLAMS. JACK is gone. The grateful DOCTOR breathes a
text: sigh of relief and steadies himself on an operating table.
scene_heading: EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - OVERHEAD ANGLE - NIGHT
text: From a point high above we see JACK emerging into the
text: alley, pulling on a hat, wrapping a muffler about his head.
text: We can't see his face. But we can't forget his LAUGH.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: VICKI nestled peacefully under the covers. Beside her is
text: BRUCE: hands behind his head, staring up at the ceiling.
text: It's almost as though BRUCE is not used to sleeping at
text: night. He doesn't know what to do with himself.
text: He looks at VICKI. She's terribly lovely. But despite all
dialog: that, we can't shake the feeling that BRUCE... would really
dialog: rather be somewhere else.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: LOUD MUSIC. KIDS in punk regalia stand outside a rock club
text: as JACK stalks past. The wind knocks his hat off.
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Nice hair, dude!
text: JACK ignores them as he bends to retrieve his hat. Then he
text: gazes up at the steel-and-glass facade of a SKYSCRAPER --
text: and strides deliberately across the street.
scene_heading: INT. GRISSOM'S PENTHOUSE - NIGHT
text: The spectacular Gotham skyline, seen through the plate-
text: glass window of GRISSOM's conference room. The doors to the
text: private elevator hiss open and JACK wanders in. He plops in
text: the big plush swivel chair behind GRISSOM's desk.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (O.S.)
dialog: That you, sugar bumps?
text: GRISSOM waddles in unsuspectingly from the adjoining room.
text: He's fresh out of the shower, a towel wrapped around his
text: impressive girth. He's using a smaller towel to dry his
text: hair, and so it's a moment before he sees the bundled-up
text: figure at his desk.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM (cont.)
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: JACK
text: It's me. "Sugar Bumps."
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: (recognizing his voice)
dialog: Jack?
dialog: (advancing cautiously)
dialog: Thank God. I can't believe it's you.
dialog: I heard you'd been --
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: (standing up)
dialog: Is that what you "heard"?
text: JACK gestures him over to the empty chair. GRISSOM doesn't
text: move until he sees the GUN pointed at his belly.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont.)
dialog: YOU SET ME UP!
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Over a girl. You must be insane!
text: GRISSOM surreptitiously reaches for a desk drawer.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont.)
dialog: Keep your hands on the desk.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: Sooner or later you would've tried
dialog: to take me, Jack. You may get me
dialog: now, but your life won't be worth a
dialog: dime.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: I've died once already. It wasn't so
dialog: bad. -- In fact I recommend it.
text: GRISSOM is beginning to panic now. It's obvious that JACK
text: is utterly, hopelessly deranged.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: Jack, listen -- we'll cut a deal --
speaker_heading: JACK
text: JACK? JACK? DO I LOOK LIKE A JACK??
text: And now, for the first time, he flings away the hat. RIPS
text: THE MUFFLER from his face. And -- as GRISSOM gasps in shock
text: -- STANDS REVEALED in his full horrendous glory.
text: His flesh is bleached bone-white. His hair is a luminous
text: seaweed-green. And his cheeks are torn and puckered from
text: the bullet wound, TWISTING HIS MOUTH INTO A HIDEOUS,
scene_heading: PERPETUAL HARLEQUIN'S GRIN.
speaker_heading: JACK (cont.)
dialog: I'm not a Jack any more.
dialog: (pause; cackling)
dialog: You made me a Joker!
text: THE CACKLE BUILDS INTO FURIOUS, HYSTERICAL LAUGHTER.
text: GRISSOM, revulsed, terrified, pushes himself away from the
text: desk, back toward the window which overlooks the city.
speaker_heading: GRISSOM
dialog: Jack -- I'm warning you. WIPE THAT
text: LUNATIC GRIN OFF YOUR FACE.
speaker_heading: JACK
dialog: HA! That's the best part. I CAN'T!!
text: And with that JACK pulls the trigger. And fires. And fires
text: again until the CLIP IS EMPTY.
scene_heading: EXT. GRISSOM'S BUILDING - NIGHT
text: We TILT UP the chrome-and-glass facade of the skyscraper,
text: arriving finally at the TOP FLOOR: a PLATE GLASS WINDOW
text: spiderwebbed with cracks where Jack's bullets hit.
scene_heading: INT. GRISSOM'S PENTHOUSE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The room is still dark. JACK -- or, as we'll know him from
text: this moment on, THE JOKER -- sits in GRISSOM's swivel
text: chair, staring out at the moon-drenched skyline.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What a view. Our little city. It
dialog: always brings a smile to my face.
text: He reaches for a nearby glass of liquor and glances down at
text: GRISSOM -- who lies dead on the floor, the towel still
text: wrapped around him. THE JOKER laughs softly to himself.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Guess it's my little city now.
dialog: Wonder what it'll look like when I
dialog: get done with it.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: I bet it'll be something real fine.
dialog: Real fine and pretty.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE T0:
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S BEDROOM - MORNING
text: The sun is just up, and VICKI finds herself alone in bed. A
text: SOFT, OFF-KEY BARITONE VOICE drifts out of the adjacent
text: bathroom: BRUCE in the shower, singing "Honeysuckle Rose."
text: She breaks into a huge smile and climbs out of bed. Somehow
text: she's wound up wearing BRUCE's ribbed formal shirt.
scene_heading: INT. BATHROOM - A MOMENT LATER - MORNING
text: BRUCE in his opulent deco shower stall, still SINGING to
text: himself. VICKI sneaks up behind him, opens the door. He
text: instantly STOPS SINGING -- as if he's been hit by a brick.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I didn't mean to scare you. I just
dialog: had to come in here and see it that
dialog: was really you singing.
text: She smiles, teasing him. He doesn't respond. He acts as if
text: she's caught him doing something shameful -- exposed him.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: (singing)
dialog: "Don't buy sugar -- you just have to
dialog: touch my cup." Come on. "You're my
dialog: sugar --"
dialog: (no response from BRUCE)
dialog: Bruce, you are such a case.
text: BRUCE seems somehow unable to sing along. But be quickly
text: recovers his composure -- and forces a crooked, almost
text: childish smile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't sing very well.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Then there's one thing in the world
dialog: you don't do very well. And I know
dialog: what it is. -- Now you'll have to
dialog: kill me.
text: He kisses her good morning, steps out and reaches for a
text: towel. His body is one big mass of BRUISES AND ABRASIONS.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: Poor thing. You should stay off that
dialog: horse.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. GLOBE - CITY ROOM - DAY
text: KNOX, in a surly mood, examines the morning edition of the
text: Globe. He's turned to page six -- the gossip page -- and
text: there, under Miranda Reitz's byline, is a picture of VICKI.
text: It seems she and BRUCE are the talk of the town.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: (disgusted)
dialog: ...Peanut.
text: A COPY BOY approaches his desk with a MANILA FOLDER:
speaker_heading: COPY BOY
dialog: Here's that morgue file you wanted.
text: KNOX leans back in his chair. The file is labelled "BRUCE
text: WAYNE: 1982-1987." KNOX opens it and begins to leaf
text: through old clippings from back issues of the Globe.
scene_heading: WAYNE FOUNDATION TO FUND LOW-COST HOUSING. MILLIONAIRE
scene_heading: HEADS CHARITY DRIVE FOR GOTHAM HANDICAPPED. HURRICANE
text: VICTIMS SAY 'THANK YOU' TO BRUCE WAYNE. KNOX's face sags in
dialog: dismay. Every article seems to be telling us just how swell
dialog: a rich philanthropist can be.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Come on. Gimme some dirt!
text: Then he notices something odd. In the whole fat file of
text: clippings, there are no pictures of Bruce Wayne -- with two
dialog: partial exceptions.
text: One is a group shot, Bruce in the middle, waving at the
text: camera and blocking our view of his face. The other is an
text: ancient picture of a collegiate Bruce, stern-faced, hair
text: down to his collar. The caption reads "BRUCE WAYNE IN
dialog: 1973" -- years out of date even when it ran in the paper.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: ... Why don't you like your picture
dialog: taken?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. APARTMENT LOBBY - NIGHT
text: A DOORMAN DOZES in the plush lobby of ALICIA HUNT's
text: apartment building on the East Side of Gotham. Through the
text: glass doors we see ALICIA outside in the chill wind,
text: peering inside, hesitant to enter.
text: As silently as possible she uses her key and steps in,
text: tiptoeing past the doorman, trying not to wake him. She's
text: almost made it when he SITS BOLT UPRIGHT, startling her.
speaker_heading: DOORMAN
dialog: Miss Hunt!
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: No need to sneak in. The rent's been
dialog: taken care of.
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: ... The rent? Paid?
scene_heading: INT. ALICIA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: ALICIA, mystified, lets herself in and turns to lock the
text: door. She's startled once more by a VOICE FROM BEHIND.
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Honey -- I'm home!
text: She pivots. Her eyes widen. She SHRIEKS.
text: Sitting cross-legged in an easy chair, a twisted grin on
text: his loathesome face, is THE JOKER. He's in a smoking jacket
text: and slippers, reading the paper, a dry martini at his side.
text: This grim parody of domesticity sends poor ALICIA into a
text: dead faint.
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE SUITE - DAY
text: It looks for all the world like a corporate boardroom. At a
text: long table sit Gotham's most distinguished criminals:
text: GANGLORDS and RACKETS BOSSES from every corner of the city.
text: They stare suspiciously at the head of the table.
speaker_heading: JOKER (O.S.)
dialog: So that's how it is, gents. Until
dialog: Grissom decides it's safe to come up
dialog: for air... I'm running the show.
text: Now we see what they see: THE JOKER, dressed rather
text: flamboyantly in a big slouch hat. His FACE is layered with
text: flesh-toned makeup, and his HAIR's been rinsed black.
text: Unfortunately, he can't conceal his ghoulish SMILE.
speaker_heading: GANG BOSS
dialog: So why don't we hear this from
dialog: Grissom?
speaker_heading: RACKETEER
dialog: I got something I'd like to know.
dialog: How come you're wearing that stupid
dialog: smirk?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: 'Cause I got an army, chum. And I
dialog: got Grissom's army. And this city
dialog: is mine.
text: CARMINE ROTELLI, an especially oily mobster, speaks up:
speaker_heading: ROTELLI
dialog: I don't like taking orders, from
dialog: Grissom. And I especially don't like
text: taking orders from Grissom's goon.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I've considered that possibility.
speaker_heading: ROTELLI
dialog: And what happens if we say no?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (chuckling)
dialog: Nobody wants a war, Carmine. If we
dialog: can't do business, we shake hands
dialog: and part friends.
speaker_heading: ROTELLI
dialog: That's it?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: That's it.
text: THE JOKER extends a hand. ROTELLI reaches out to shake it.
text: He doesn't see the JOY BUZZER concealed in the JOKER's
dialog: palm.
text: 40,000 VOLTS course through ROTELLI's body. He drops back
text: into his seat a blackened husk, SMOKE pouring out from his
text: sleeves and shirt collar.
text: The CRIMELORDS recoil in horror. Before they can make a
text: move, a squad of ARMED THUGS burst into the room.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Looks like Carmine got a little hot
text: under the collar.
speaker_heading: CRIMELORD
dialog: ... You're insane!
text: The JOKER is a wee bit agitated. He removes the hat and
text: mops sweat from his brow, exposing a patch of CHALK-WHITE
text: FLESH -- to the great bewilderment of the ONLOOKERS.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: That's what they said about Lee
text: Iacocca. Now GET OUT OF HERE. -- And
dialog: THINK IT OVER!
text: The sickened CRIMINALS file out cautiously. That leaves THE
text: JOKER alone in the room with the charred corpse of ROTELLI.
text: THE JOKER sinks into a chair and -- as is his wont --
scene_heading: ADDRESSES THE STIFF:
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Heck, they're not such bad guys. I
dialog: say we give 'em a couple of days to
dialog: come around.
dialog: (thoughtful pause)
dialog: We-e-ll... maybe one day.
dialog: (then, casually)
dialog: Aaah, screw it. Let's grease 'em.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. SMALL BACK ROOM - NIGHT
text: A poker game. A CRIMELORD from the JOKER's board meeting
text: picks up his hand and fans out the cards. FIVE JOKERS.
text: He looks up, puzzled. The last thing he sees is a HIRED
text: KILLER bursting in through the door, GUN IN HAND.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - DAY
text: A COSTUMED CLOWN with a wheeled cart, filling balloons from
text: a helium tank, passing them out to the kids. CRIMELORD #2
text: strolls past. The CLOWN offers him a balloon, which be
text: politely refuses.
text: THE CLOWN reaches into his cart for a RED METAL TANK. But,
text: as we quickly find out, it's not a helium tank -- it's a
text: FLAMETHROWER.
scene_heading: EXT. HALLIDAY PLAZA - DAY
text: A sunny, landscaped quad surrounded by corporate
text: skyscrapers: trees, grass, marble fountains, flags of many
text: nations. Amid the pedestrians we catch BRUCE and VICKI, all
text: smiles, cutting through the plaza on the way to lunch.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... To tell you the truth, I'd just
text: about given up waiting.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I said I'd call you the minute I got
dialog: free. And I did. -- And here we are.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (teasing him)
dialog: Hm hmm. Lunch. Not even dinner.
text: He stops in his tracks, takes her by the shoulders.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Vicki. Do you want the whole truth?
dialog: All coyness aside?
dialog: (long pause)
dialog: I wish I had more time to give you.
dialog: Every day I don't see you, I miss
dialog: you.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Now. Are you going to waste this
dialog: lovely afternoon being all mad at
dialog: me?
dialog: All this, of course, is delivered with devastating
text: sincerity. VICKI finds herself totally disarmed.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Okay, I'm a sucker. You sound so
dialog: much like someone I used to...
dialog: (stopping suddenly)
dialog: Bruce? I know this is silly, but --
dialog: you're not married, are you?
text: He stops and laughs. She smiles crookedly, takes his arm.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - ACROSS PLAZA - THAT MOMENT
text: PHILLY RICORSO -- another CRIMELORD from the boardroom --
text: enters the plaza flanked by a cadre of PAID BODYGUARDS.
scene_heading: ON BRUCE AND VICKI
text: A PAINTED STREET MIME walks alongside them, feeling his way
text: along an imaginary wall. VICKI groans.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: All street mimes should be executed.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ... Looks like a convention.
text: And indeed, there are HALF A DOZEN STREET MIMES converging
text: on the center of the plaza.
text: RICORSO and co. approach the mirrored-glass entrance of a
text: skyscraper. In the lobby, A MIME -- who's been annoying the
text: passersby -- THROWS A BOLT, LOCKING THE DOORS from inside.
text: A BODYGUARD bangs on the glass. Nearby, ANOTHER MIME
text: reaches into a trash bin -- and pulls out a MACHINE GUN.
text: SUDDEN SCREAMS OF TERROR from the onlookers.
text: VICKI turns to BRUCE. Before she can get his name out, he's
text: HOISTED HER BODILY and THROWN HER behind a marble fountain.
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: BRUCE'S EYES darting birdlike around the plaza -- INTERCUT
text: with the following POV SHOTS, ALL IN SLOW MOTION:
text: - TWO MIMES with machine guns. One of them lining PHILLY
text: and co. up against the glass doors, the other holding
text: the CROWD at bay;
text: - A WOMAN in the crowd fainting. A THIRD MIME gleefully
text: imitating her swoon, to no one's amusement;
text: - PHILLY and his goons, COWERING, hands in the air, as
text: OTHER MIMES cruelly mimic their terrified poses...
text: ... and suddenly BRUCE is RUNNING FRANTICALLY, looking for
text: a secluded spot, an alleyway, anything. No go. He's out in
text: the open, with onlookers everywhere. In his civvies, he's
text: just another citizen... TOTALLY IMPOTENT.
text: He darts around a corner, backs against a wall. WOMEN,
text: CHILDREN, GROWN MEN race past. No privacy. He's
text: practically quaking now, in the throes of some terrible
text: anxiety. He looks up at the sky overhead, terrified.
text: A BRILLIANT SUN bears down on him as MACHINE GUNS CHATTER.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON PHILLY AND BODYGUARDS
text: BODIES JERKING as GLASS rains down in shards.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON BRUCE
text: his back arched, his mouth agape, his face drained of blood
text: as the sounds of carnage echo through the plaza. It's
text: almost as if the bullets are striking him.
text: A moment later, it's all over but the screaming. VICKI
text: emerges from the crowd and finds BRUCE slumped against the
text: wall, nearly catatonic. She moves to touch him.
text: As if by reflex he reaches out and GRABS HER BY THE ARMS --
text: with a grip so strong it could crush bone. She GASPS, looks
text: up -- and sees, in his traumatized EYES, a look so raw, so
text: desperate, that it virtually defies comprehension.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: BRUCE!!
text: He blinks rapidly. He relaxes his grip. Before VICKI's
text: eyes, he's changing... becoming the BRUCE she knows.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oh my God... are you all right?
text: He reaches for her. Involuntarily, she steps back.
text: He sees her reaction and his face goes slack -- frightened,
text: pleading. This time she lets him embrace her... but her
text: face is full of bewilderment and doubt.
scene_heading: INSERT - TELEVISION SCREEN
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: ... live from Halliday Plaza, where a
dialog: gangland-style execution claimed the
dialog: life of racketeer Philly Ricorso.
text: Ricorso's death is the third in a
dialog: rash of underworld killings...
text: CUT TO TWO-SHOT: the ANCHORWOMAN and COMMISSIONER GORDON.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN (cont.)
dialog: Commissioner, you've heard the
dialog: rumors. Are these murders the work
dialog: of the mysterious 'Batman'?
text: A PIERCING CACKLE fills the air. CAMERA PULLS BACK from the
text: TV, placing us in the JOKER's boardroom. Behind the big
text: desk he SWIVELS INTO VIEW, phone in hand.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: All reet! I think it's about time
dialog: we called another meeting, huh?
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: ALFRED on the phone, a feather duster in his hand.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm sorry, Miss Vale. I've given him
dialog: your messages. That's all I can do.
text: ANGLE WIDENS. BRUCE is sitting mere feet away, obviously
text: distraught, locked in some sort of internal struggle.
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - THAT MOMENT - DAY
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Please tell him... I'm not trying to
dialog: make his life difficult. I'd just --
dialog: I'd just like to know what's going
dialog: on.
text: A KNOCK at the door as VICKI hangs up. She goes to open it,
text: finds KNOX -- wearing a big, cheshire-cat smile.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Hiya, peanut. I got something I'd
dialog: like you to see.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - DAY
text: A MICROFILM MACHINE. As VICKI looks on curiously, KNOX --
text: all eagerness now -- threads up a roll of film and begins
text: cranking through back-issue newspapers.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Okay, here we go. Check it out.
text: He steps back. VICKI stares down at the display screen. A
scene_heading: FRONT-PAGE BANNER HEADLINE reads:
scene_heading: THOMAS WAYNE MURDERED
dialog: Prominent Doctor, Wife Slain in Robbery
text: Unidentified Gunman Leaves Child Unharmed
text: Beneath it, a PHOTO: cops kneeling over corpses. Medics
text: with stretchers. And off to one side, a YOUNG BOY -- BRUCE
text: WAYNE -- his arms wrapped around the waist of a BEAT COP.
text: The BOY stares straight at the camera. His face is a mask
text: of UNFORGETTABLE AGONY. You can't take your eyes off it.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh my God... I've seen this picture.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: I guess so. Pulitzer Prize, 1963.
speaker_heading: VICKI
text: His face. Allie, look at his face.
text: TIGHT ON THE BOY'S contorted face, staring out in shock and
text: disbelief, his features recognizable across all the years
text: -- permanently, indelibly traumatized. The same face VICKI
text: saw in Halliday Plaza.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yep. He watched the whole thing
dialog: happen. -- Recognize the beat cop?
dialog: Jim Gordon.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, Bruce...
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Something like this -- what do you
dialog: suppose this could drive a guy to?
scene_heading: INT. RESTAURANT - DAY
text: A greasy spoon off the lobby of the Globe building. KNOX
text: and VICKI in a booth.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Alexander, you are on drugs.
speaker_heading: KNOX
text: He walks out on his own party. Half
text: an hour later, the Caped Crusader
text: turns up in full bat-drag.
dialog: (beat)
text: Sees an execution, freaks out in an
dialog: alleyway. No place to change.
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: Yeah, Vicki, he's "married" all
dialog: right.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You're pissing me off, Allie. I know
dialog: exactly why you're doing this.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: (leaning forward)
dialog: Oh? Why is that, Vicki?
text: VICKI wilts under the challenge. She holds her silence for
text: a second, then changes the subject.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: He's best friends with Jim Gordon
dialog: and Harvey Dent. They would know.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: ... Okay, Vicki, I have a confession
dialog: to make. I'm the Batman.
text: VICKI snorts, rolls her eyes impatiently.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Don't believe me? Why not?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Alexander... I know you.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Right. And they know him. And
dialog: that's why it would never occur to
dialog: them for a minute that their old
text: buddy Bruce puts on a cape at night
dialog: and goes out looking for --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: This is pointless. I'm leaving.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: (grabbing her arm)
dialog: Your little chum is out of his mind.
dialog: (relaxing his grip)
dialog: Next time you call him up and he
dialog: can't go out Friday night -- think
text: it over.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ACE CHEMICAL CO. - DAY
text: LOW ANGLE on the JOKER. He stands on a catwalk high above
text: the refinery floor, lord of all he surveys, overseeing
text: production like a demented middle manager.
scene_heading: INT. STOREROOM - DAY
text: A dank, windowless room in the bowels of Ace Chemical,
text: which the JOKER has converted into a makeshift lair. SAP-
text: LIKE GOO drips in puddles from exposed pipes overhead.
text: CAMERA DRIFTS across the JOKER's cluttered desk. Shipping
text: manifests. Ledgers. PSYCHOTIC DOODLES scrawled in crayon.
dialog: More significantly: an old CONTRACT dating back to the mid-
text: seventies. It's half-obscured by other papers, but the
text: initials 'CIA' are plainly visible.
text: Then: a BOUND REPORT with the title 'DDID NERVE GAS:
scene_heading: RESULTS OF PRELIMINARY EXPERIMENTATION.' Across its title
text: page, a diagonal rubber stamp: 'DISCONTINUED January 1977.'
text: And finally: a sheaf of PHOTOS. Laboratory apes, chimps and
text: orangutans, all DEAD. Their LIPS are drawn back, exposing
scene_heading: HIDEOUS, CHEMICAL-INDUCED GRIMACES.
text: ON ONE WALL: POSTER-SIZED BLOWUPS of the grinning apes.
text: ON THE OPPOSITE WALL: a large-scale photographic
text: reproduction of the Gotham City skyline, its bottom half
text: HIDDEN FROM VIEW by the JOKER's desk.
text: The PHONE RINGS. The JOKER -- who has been sitting on the
text: floor by the cityscape -- POPS INTO FRAME and picks it up.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: How's that first shipment coming?
speaker_heading: VOICE ON PHONE
dialog: Right on schedule. Oh, we got that
dialog: address for you -- 79 East End,
dialog: #12-C.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Mmm. How'd you find it?
speaker_heading: VOICE ON PHONE
dialog: Called her agent.
text: The JOKER nods in satisfaction and resumes his place on the
text: floor. Like a happy kindergartener, with paste pot and
text: scissors, he's CLIPPING PHOTOS from a magazine -- horrible
text: scenes of death, destruction, panic, mutilation.
text: One by one, he's PASTING these shots on the blowup of
text: Gotham city -- all along sidewalk level -- creating a
text: massive photomontage of ANARCHY IN THE STREETS.
dialog: We've seen these photos before. VICKI VALE took them... in
dialog: Corto Maltese.
scene_heading: INT. PHOTOGRAPHER'S STUDIO - DAY
text: In foreground, ROWS OF MAKEUP in startling profusion:
text: mascara, blusher, eyeliner, lipstick. HALF A DOZEN
text: BEAUTIFUL MODELS giggle into their makeup mirrors.
text: In the background VICKI wanders past with a stylish friend,
text: CLAIRE, who owns and operates the studio.
speaker_heading: CLAIRE
dialog: ... of course, after Corto Maltese,
dialog: this must all seem pretty tame.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Not to me. I need a job.
speaker_heading: CLAIRE
dialog: Now Vicki. Everyone knows you've
dialog: got your hooks in Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Then "everyone" must know something
dialog: I don't.
speaker_heading: CLAIRE
dialog: (cattily)
dialog: Oh. Really. Well. -- Come on,
dialog: dear, Tony's dying to see you.
text: In a corner of the studio, TONY, a gaunt, tubercular Brit,
text: is shooting a swimsuit layout with two SUPERMODELS. They
text: all ad lib greetings to VICKI as TONY darts around
text: hyperkinetically, snapping the girls in a series of poses.
speaker_heading: TONY
dialog: Yes, ladies, smiles, show me
dialog: those smiles, fabulous, tropical
dialog: smiles, think Tahiti, I want to
dialog: see teeth, yes, those glorious
dialog: teeth --
text: As VICKI looks on, the SUPERMODELS freeze in place
text: simultaneously, a strange, STRICKEN LOOK on their faces.
speaker_heading: TONY (cont.)
dialog: My God no, don't stop now, those
dialog: smiles, I need those smiles --
text: Suddenly the girls are LAUGHING -- but the laughter is
text: unnatural, involuntary. VICKI, sensing that something is
text: terribly wrong, lays a hand on CLAIRE's arm.
text: The MODELS, now wearing HUGE SMILES, begin to TWITCH
text: SPASMODICALLY. TONY snaps away.
speaker_heading: TONY (cont.)
dialog: Yes! Oh baby, YES! That's --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: No! Too far, too far! Pull back,
dialog: pull back!
dialog: (dropping the camera)
dialog: OH MY GOD!
text: The SUPERMODELS PITCH TO THE FLOOR, shuddering
text: convulsively, their LIPS drawn back in FRIGHTFUL, FROZEN,
scene_heading: LAB-APE GRINS. VICKI GASPS. CLAIRE SCREAMS. TONY SCREAMS.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - EVENING
text: The Eyewitness News set, with anchors PATSY NARITA and
text: DAVE McELROY. Behind them, BLOWUPS of the two dead
text: SUPERMODELS.
speaker_heading: PATSY
dialog: The fashion world was stunned today
dialog: by the sudden deaths of top models
dialog: Kelly Brinkley and Christie Emberg.
dialog: Cause of death has been attributed
text: to a violent allergic reaction,
dialog: although authorities have not yet
dialog: ruled out the possibility of drug
dialog: use. Dave?
text: Behind DAVE, on the bluescreen: a HUGE STATUE, covered in
text: canvas -- not unlike New York's Statue of Liberty.
speaker_heading: DAVE
dialog: In Gotham, plans continue for the
dialog: city's 300th birthday celebration.
dialog: The four-day event will conclude
text: with the unveiling, in Gotham
dialog: Harbor, of the newly restored 'Lady
dialog: Gotham'...
text: A TECHNICIAN'S HAND passes a slip of paper into frame.
speaker_heading: DAVE (cont.)
dialog: This bulletin just in. Nine more
dialog: mysterious deaths at a beauty parlor
dialog: in --
text: Off to the left, PATSY begins to LAUGH. DAVE FROWNS.
speaker_heading: DAVE (cont.)
dialog: Patsy! This is hardly the --
dialog: (his eyes widen)
dialog: PATSY!!
text: An offscreen CRASH. Suddenly DAVE is up out of his seat,
text: mouth agape in horror.
scene_heading: PATSY HAS GONE INTO CONVULSIONS. CAMERA WHIPS VIOLENTLY
text: RIGHT AND LEFT as she jerks out of her seat and TOTTERS
text: UNCONTROLLABLY across the set, LAUGHING INSANELY.
text: TECHNICIANS rush the soundstage in an unrehearsed frenzy.
text: PATSY spins like a dervish and LURCHES BACKWARD over the
text: newsdesk in a death spasm, giving us a quick look at the
text: grisly Joker's grin etched on her now-lifeless face.
text: DAVE gestures frantically to the cameraman:
speaker_heading: DAVE (cont.)
dialog: KILL THE CAMERA!! KILL THE --
text: Suddenly, CRACKLING VIDEO STATIC wipes out the screen. A
dialog: moment later, we're looking at:
scene_heading: SPLITSCREEN CLOSEUP - THE SUPERMODELS
text: Their gorgeous faces sprout BIG, ANIMATED-CARTOON GRINS as
text: a BOUNCY TUNE -- "Put on a Happy Face" -- comes up
dialog: underneath.
speaker_heading: MODELS (CARTOON VOICE)
dialog: ... Love that Joker!
scene_heading: INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY
text: THEME MUSIC CONTINUES as a grinning, deranged pitchman --
text: THE JOKER -- pushes his shopping cart down the aisle. The
text: shelves are filled with products bearing his TRADEMARK
text: HARLEQUIN'S FACE. He waves merrily in time to the music.
scene_heading: INT. STUDIO - VIDEO CONTROL BOOTH - THAT MOMENT
text: PANICKED TECHNICIANS swarm the booth. The studio feed has
text: been JAMMED. Every monitor shows THE JOKER'S COMMERCIAL.
speaker_heading: DIRECTOR
dialog: WHERE'S IT COMING FROM??
speaker_heading: TECHNICIAN
dialog: I DON'T KNOW!
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - THE JOKER
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: ... new improved Joker brand. With
dialog: the secret ingredient... SMYLENOL!
dialog: (a sweep of the hand)
dialog: Let's go to our blind taste test.
text: TIGHT ON an anonymous MAN -- GAGGED AND BLINDFOLDED, tied
text: to his chair, squirming, struggling. On the table before
text: him is a package labelled "BRAND X." A SUPERIMPOSED TITLE
text: reads: "NOT AN ACTOR."
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
text: Ooh. He's tense. Irritable. Out of
dialog: sorts.
dialog: (wagging a finger)
dialog: He's been using Brand X! But with
dialog: new improved Joker brand...
text: ANGLE WIDENS to include a BLINDFOLDED CORPSE, limp in his
text: chair, GRINNING HORRIFICALLY.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: ... it's a SMILE EVERY TIME!!
scene_heading: EXT. IDYLLIC PASTORAL SETTING - DAY
text: THE JOKER in a field of wheat. On a picnic blanket before
text: him are TWO CLEAN-CUT MODELS -- one male, one female, BOTH
text: DEAD... and GRIMACING HORRIBLY.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: -- and the world smiles with you!
dialog: Irresistable -- oh-so-kissable --
text: He grabs the dead MODELS by the hair. THEIR TEETH CLINK as
text: he forces their heads together for a post-mortem kiss.
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: Television sets all over Gotham, as startled citizens react
text: to the JOKER's maniacal promo.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I know what you're saying. Where can
dialog: I buy these fine, fine products?
dialog: Well, that's the gag, folks, you
dialog: never know. Chances are... you've
dialog: bought 'em already!!!
text: As his RANT CONTINUES, we SEE:
text: - A YOUNG MAN watching the bedroom TV as he dresses for
text: a date. He's got an aerosol deodorant can poised under
text: one arm, ready to spray. He looks down at the can,
dialog: suddenly uncertain. Could it be...?
text: - A FAMILY in their kitchen, eyeing a 12-inch portable
text: as MOM serves dinner. They dig in automatically, then
text: FREEZE with their forks in midair.
text: - A MIDDLE-AGED MATRON at the living-room TV. Shocked,
text: she calls to her husband -- and gets no reply. We
text: FOLLOW HER to the bathroom door.
text: On the floor she sees AN OVERTURNED SHAMPOO BOTTLE.
text: Then: her HUSBAND, slumped down in the tub, a lethal
text: GRIN on his face. She lets out a SHRIEK.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - STUDY - NIGHT
text: ALFRED THE BUTLER in a crouch, glued to the tube.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: ... Sir!
text: HIS POV: THE JOKER in tight closeup. Offscreen, an INFANT
text: begins to squall. THE JOKER cocks an eyebrow.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Baby's got a tummyache? Here's
dialog: something that'll fix him quick!
text: He tosses a JOKER PRODUCT out of frame. Then -- leering --
text: he gives the camera a BIG JUICY WINK.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Now on your grocer's shelf. So
dialog: remember -- use Joker brand -- and
dialog: put on a happy face!!
text: MUSIC UP. VIDEO SNOW fills the screen as the jammed
text: transmission end. ALFRED looks over his shoulder.
text: TRACK IN ON THE GRIM, DETERMINED FACE OF BRUCE WAYNE.
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: - The Gotham Globe cartwheeling into frame:
speaker_heading: PANIC GRIPS GOTHAM
dialog: Contaminated Products Claim 72 Lives
text: WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS "JOKER"?
text: - An ANCHORWOMAN on the evening news. Her complexion is
text: curiously sallow. BLACK BAGS show under her eyes.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: ... sixteen new deaths, with no clues
dialog: as to the Joker's identity or
dialog: demands. The list at potentially
dialog: lethal products now includes:
dialog: perfume -- mascara -- cold cream --
text: - The makeover counter at Bloomingdale's. SECURITY
text: GUARDS rush to the scene as THREE MATRONLY CUSTOMERS
text: go into simultaneous smiling fits.
text: - An ANCHORMAN with a BIG UGLY ZIT on his nose:
speaker_heading: ANCHORMAN
dialog: Men's cologne toothpaste mouthwash
dialog: -- underarm deodorant --
text: - A SUBWAY CAR jammed with STRAPHANGERS. HUGE PATCHES OF
text: SWEAT under every arm. The doors slide open; ONCOMING
text: PASSENGERS RECOIL VISIBLY at the unendurable stench.
text: - The original ANCHORWOMAN, whose look is now 100%
text: natural. Her hair is frizzy. Her eyebrows are missing
text: altogether. Every wrinkle on her face is plainly
text: visible.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: Hair spray -- eyebrow pencil --
dialog: moisturizing cream --
text: - A LARGE DRUGSTORE. CASHIERS sit idly by the registers.
text: The store is utterly devoid of customers.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - DUSK
text: From across the street we see VICKI headed down the
text: sidewalk toward a museum. A GLOVED HAND reaches for a pay
dialog: phone.
speaker_heading: VOICE
text: She's outside the Fluegelheim.
scene_heading: INT. ALICIA HUNT'S PENTHOUSE - THAT MOMENT
text: A BONE-WHITE HAND slams a phone receiver down. THE JOKER is
text: at his vanity. He's rinsed his hair black. He's applying
text: pounds of pancake makeup to his bleached face, his puckered
text: cheeks. In the right light he could almost pass for human.
text: In all the city, he's the only person still using
dialog: cosmetics.
text: A DREAMY, DRUGGED VOICE intrudes:
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: Jack? Who was that?
text: As he looks up at the mirror, we get a quick glimpse of
text: ALICIA behind him. The voice, the long blonde hair, are
text: unmistakable. But for some reason, ALICIA'S FACE is
text: COVERED... by a SHINY WHITE PORCELAIN DOLL'S MASK.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Get dressed. We're going out.
scene_heading: INT. FLUEGELHEIM MUSEUM - EVENING
text: A Gotham landmark, the Fluegelheim looks like something
dialog: Frank Lloyd Wright would've dreamed up -- a large open
text: atrium encircled by a stucco RAMP, which spirals up along
dialog: the interior walls to the CEILING four stories above. You
text: walk up this gently-inclined ramp to view the paintings.
scene_heading: INT. FLUEGELHEIM - ROOFTOP TEA ROOM - EVENING
text: The upper terminus of the ramp opens on an airy, fern-
text: filled dining room popular with tourists and elderly
text: matrons who work up an appetite looking at art. VICKI
text: enters, camera bag slung over one shoulder, portfolio in
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm meeting Mr. Wayne. Is he here?
speaker_heading: MAITRE D'
dialog: No, but your table is ready.
scene_heading: INT. TEA ROOM - TWENTY MINUTES LATER - EVENING
text: VICKI, sipping on a gin and tonic, checks her watch. A
text: WAITER brings her a small parcel, wrapped in brown paper,
text: bearing a single word: URGENT.
speaker_heading: WAITER
dialog: Miss Vale, this just arrived for
dialog: you.
text: As the WAITER leaves, she tears off the wrapper. Inside is
text: a small white box and a NOTE -- SCRIBBLED IN CRAYON.
speaker_heading: DEAR V. VALE,
text: PUT THIS ON RIGHT NOW.
text: Unsigned, of course. VICKI, puzzled, opens the box to find
text: a MINIATURE GAS MASK.
text: She hears a strange HISSING NOISE. A few feet away, GREEN
text: SMOKE is billowing out of an air-conditioning vent.
text: TRAYS OF FOOD CRASH TO THE FLOOR as WAITERS pass out. ART
text: LOVERS drop forks, go face down in their pasta salad.
text: VICKI hurriedly fits the gas mask over her nose and mouth.
text: Within seconds, she's the only one conscious in the room.
scene_heading: INT. MUSEUM - THAT MOMENT
text: GREEN SMOKE plumes up toward the ceiling as we TILT DOWN
text: toward the floor of the atrium. PATRONS and SECURITY GUARDS
text: lie sprawled on the floor, twisted at odd angles, out cold.
text: The mist is beginning to clear now. The doors swing open
text: and in strolls THE JOKER, looking quite dapper in his
text: street makeup and BIG PURPLE PIMP'S HAT.
text: A SQUAD OF GOONS enters behind him. Some of them are
text: carrying large cartons. They lock the entry doors, place a
text: "CLOSED" sign in front of them, and begin uncrating LARGE
text: CANS OF BLACK PAINT.
text: The JOKER steps up onto the ramp, examines the artwork with
text: an appreciative eye.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Okay, boys, let's broaden our minds.
text: He stops in front of an Ingres odalisque. Stands back a
text: pace or two to get a better look. Then pulls out a STRAIGHT
text: RAZOR and cuts a LONG DIAGONAL GASH in the canvas.
text: He ambles up the ramp, stepping over collapsed patrons,
text: pausing at every fourth or fifth painting. Monet water
text: lilies, a Degas ballerina -- all get the razor treatment.
text: Behind him his CRONIES work their way up the ramp, HEAVING
text: BLACK PAINT on every canvas the JOKER has missed.
text: He cocks an eyebrow at Edvard Munch's "THE SCREAM."
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I kinda like this one. Leave it.
scene_heading: INT. TEA ROOM - A MOMENT LATER - EVENING
text: VICKI at her table, still wearing the gas mask, scared as
text: hell. The overhead lights wink out and the room goes dark.
text: The JOKER saunters over and pulls up a chair.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I think it's safe to take that off.
text: VICKI recognizes the deranged smile instantly. She removes
text: the gas mask, tries to gather her wits.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: You're quite beautiful.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... Thank you.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Unfortunate, but I think we can work
dialog: around it.
text: He sets a couple of CANDLESTICKS on the table and reaches
text: for his lighter. A LONG JET OF FLAME shoots out, Jerry
text: Lewis-style, as he lights the candles.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: You're Vicki Vale. I guess you know
dialog: who I am. -- Is this your
dialog: portfolio?
text: She nods. He opens it, begins leafing through the record of
text: VICKI's career. Newspaper photos from the Globe, at first.
text: Then fashion layouts, magazine covers of celebrities.
text: Artier B&amp;W shots from VICKI's first couple of exhibitions.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Crap. Crap. Crap, crap, crap...
dialog: Ahhh. Now here's what caught my eye.
text: He's come to the COMBAT PHOTOS from Corto Maltese.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
text: The panic. The bloody skulls. The
dialog: armless screaming fellows... you
dialog: know, the atrocities.
dialog: (smirking)
dialog: Somehow, when you shoot it, it all
dialog: comes out so clean, so lovely.
text: VICKI is squirming, but she doesn't think it wise to debate
dialog: the point. Not with this lunatic, anyway.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I guess I'm just an old cornball,
dialog: but... I live for beauty. I look
dialog: around at my little city, it gets me
dialog: down.
dialog: (indicating the photos)
dialog: We don't have anything like this.
dialog: Well, it came to me that what this
dialog: city needs... is beautification. Kind
text: of a big makeover.
dialog: (enraptured)
dialog: Miss Vale, I finally realized that
dialog: one man can make a difference. You
dialog: know the saying. "In his image...
dialog: created he them"?
text: VICKI gazes at the awful face of this deranged visionary,
text: getting more frightened by the minute.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: And you want a --
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: A visual record, yes. A before-and-
dialog: after kind of thing.
dialog: (leaning closer)
dialog: This could make your reputation.
text: Her first impulse is to get up and run. But she fights the
dialog: impulse. She won't run... not until she gets this maniac
text: on film. She reaches for her camera bag.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Maybe we should start with a
dialog: portrait of the artist. People might
dialog: like to see the face behind the
dialog: makeup.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: (momentarily puzzled)
dialog: ... Behind the makeup?
text: Then it sinks in. By candlelight, in the darkened
text: restaurant, with his pancake makeup and his black rinse
text: job, he looks practically normal. VICKI must think she's
dialog: looking at his real face!
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Oh. Yes. I see what you mean.
text: He finds a pitcher, pours a glass of water, and very
text: carefully SETS IT ON THE TABLE in front of VICKI. Then --
text: suddenly, inexplicably -- HE BARKS AT HER:
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Silly little TWIT -- I can't take
dialog: you ANYWHERE!
text: He sits back and grins expectantly. VICKI is thoroughly
text: nonplussed by this bizarre outburst. A moment passes.
text: He obviously wants her to do something, but she hasn't
text: got a clue as to what it is. Growing impatient now, he
scene_heading: POINTS at the WATER GLASS:
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Well? What are you waiting for??
text: Now VICKI gets the point. She picks up the glass and HURLS
text: ITS CONTENTS in THE JOKER'S FACE.
text: His hands go up. He writhes. He shrieks -- like the Wicked
text: Witch of the West dissolving. He reaches for a napkin to
text: wipe his face clean... and begins to CACKLE.
text: His awful white-and-green clown's face revealed behind the
text: running makeup, he LEERS at her.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: You see, Miss Vale -- that was my
dialog: makeup.
dialog: (leaning forward)
dialog: What do you think?
text: VICKI is repulsed, but she's determined to tough it out.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I've seen worse. Much worse.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Strong stomach, huh? I like that in
dialog: a woman. -- Maybe we can do business
dialog: after all.
text: He seems to have calmed down a bit. It's almost as if he's
text: coming on to her. But just then, a tiny BELL sounds behind
text: them... and a VOICE intrudes:
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Jack?
text: The JOKER turns. ALICIA steps out of a ROOFTOP ELEVATOR and
text: moves toward them, drugged, wraithlike. She's still wearing
text: the porcelain DOLL'S MASK we saw earlier.
speaker_heading: JOKER
speaker_heading: (to VICKI)
dialog: Christ, it's my girlfriend.
speaker_heading: (to ALICIA)
speaker_heading: WHAT?
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: You said I could look at the
dialog: pictures before you -- before you --
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Shucks, honey, I forgot.
text: (rolling his eyes at
speaker_heading: VICKI)
dialog: I'm in trouble now.
speaker_heading: (to ALICIA)
dialog: This is business, sweetie. Why don't
dialog: you go outside and see how the boys
dialog: are coming?
text: VICKI can't take her eyes off this strange figure drifting
text: eerily through the abandoned tea room.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (hesitantly)
dialog: ... Why the mask?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Alicia! Come here, have a seat. Show
dialog: Miss Vale why you wear the mask.
text: ALICIA sits down numbly and begins to undo the mask.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: You see, Miss Vale, Alicia's beautiful.
text: One in a million. A work of art. In
dialog: fact...
text: We're looking at ALICIA's profile as the mask comes off.
dialog: The side that's turned to us is indeed beautiful. But the
text: side we can't see... SENDS VICKI RIGHT OVER THE EDGE.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: She makes you look sick.
text: VICKI lurches out of her seat, knocking it over, HER FACE
text: FROZEN IN HORROR. She finds her CAMERA, holds it out like a
text: weapon as THE JOKER advances on her.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You SCUM! You SICK FILTH!... You DID
dialog: THAT to her!
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: What? I improved her a little...
text: VICKI backs away, snapping the shutter on her camera. HE
text: BLINKS as the flash gun goes off repeatedly.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'll see you burn. I'll see you dead.
dialog: -- GET AWAY FROM ME!!
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Miss Vale, was it something I said?
dialog: (brightly)
dialog: Do you want to sniff my flower?
text: There's a BRIGHT PURPLE BOUTONNIERE in his lapel. He holds
text: it up for VICKI's inspection as he moves menacingly closer.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: NO!
text: The JOKER squeezes a concealed BULB. A JET OF CLEAR LIQUID
text: spurts out of the FLOWER, NARROWLY MISSING VICKI.
text: She GASPS. BUMPS INTO A TABLE. ACRID BLACK SMOKE rises from
text: the floor where the clear liquid hit. Acid.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Come on, Miss Vale... STOP AND SMELL
dialog: THE ROSES!!
text: He backs VICKI into a corner. And then -- abruptly --
text: A SKYLIGHT SHATTERS IN A HAIL OF GLASS! A CAPED SHADOW
text: DROPS TO THE FLOOR OF THE RESTAURANT! And THE JOKER is face
dialog: to face with...
speaker_heading: THE BATMAN!
text: On his wrist is a STEEL GAUNTLET. Ha AIMS IT at the JOKER
text: like a weapon. Then PIVOTS SUDDENLY -- POINTS HIS ARM
scene_heading: THROUGH THE DOOR OF THE RESTAURANT --
text: -- AND FIRES A METAL SPIKE into the adobe wall of the RAMP
dialog: OUTSIDE!!
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: ... YOU!!
text: On the end of the spike is a CORD leading to BATMAN's belt.
text: In the wink of an eye he's GRABBED VICKI -- DRAGGED HER OUT
text: OF the tea room -- and PLUNGED OVER THE RAMP WALL, FOUR
text: STORIES STRAIGHT DOWN TO THE ATRIUM FLOOR BELOW!!!
text: The JOKER races to the edge of the ramp.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: GET 'EM!! GET 'EM!!
text: His GOONS are stationed at various points along the ramp,
text: still defacing masterpieces. They pull their guns and OPEN
text: FIRE as BATMAN and VICKI plummet past.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BATMAN AND VICKI - AS THEY FALL
text: He holds the gauntlet overhead, ROPE whistling through it.
text: As we watch, the gauntlet sprouts STEEL WINGS -- forming a
text: BULLETPROOF SHIELD over their heads!
text: TWO FEET ABOVE the marble floor, THE ROPE jerks them up
text: short -- like a bunjee cord. GUNS BLAZE as BATMAN and VICKI
text: drop safely to earth and MAKE FOR THE EXIT.
text: The doors are LOCKED. BATMAN spots the black "CLOSED" sign
text: on a metal stand. He HEAVES IT through the glass doors.
text: VICKI hustles through. He points her to a side alley.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE ALLEY - THAT MOMENT - DUSK
text: VICKI rounds the corner just as BATMAN lobs a SMOKE PELLET
text: into the doorway of the Fluegelheim.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: GET IN THE CAR!
speaker_heading: VICKI
speaker_heading: WHICH CAR?
text: VICKI suddenly feels quite stupid. Because -- while there
text: are many cars parked along the side alley -- there is only
text: one BATMOBILE.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: ... Oh.
text: The BATMOBILE is sleek, futuristic, and... well,
text: indescribable. Imagine your own. VICKI climbs into the
text: passenger seat and is immediately dazzled by a stunning
text: array of electronic gadgetry.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Ignition!
text: As BATMAN sprints down the alley, a COMPUTER DISPLAY on the
text: dashboard registers his unique voiceprint. A tinny,
text: synthesized VOICE repeats the command:
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Ignition.
text: The engines are revving up even as BATMAN vaults into the
text: cockpit alongside VICKI.
text: Guns in hand, the JOKER'S GOONS Are stumbling out of the
text: Fluegelheim, hacking, coughing, blinded by smoke. They DIVE
text: FOR THEIR LIVES as the BATMOBILE comes barrelling out of
text: the alley at ninety miles an hour.
text: THE JOKER emerges just as the BATMOBILE careens off.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I WANT HIM!! I WANT HIM!!
text: The JOKER climbs into the back of a van labelled "MONARCH
text: PLAYING CARDS." Half his GOONS pile into the van behind
text: him, the other half into a second car nearby.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - THAT MOMENT
text: SIRENS HOWL as POLICE CARS converge on the Flugelheim.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - THAT MOMENT
text: roaring out into CITY TRAFFIC.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Look! Police!
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I called them.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Shouldn't we --
text: A POLICE CAR whizzes past the BATMOBILE. TIRES SKID. The
text: COP CAR does a quick 180 and sets out in hot pursuit of the
text: BATMOBILE. BATMAN FLOORS THE ACCELERATOR in response.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: TIGHT ON the demented face of THE JOKER. A GOON calls out
text: from the front of the van.
speaker_heading: GOON
dialog: There they are! Dead ahead!
text: THE JOKER screams into a RADIO DISPATCHER'S MIKE.
speaker_heading: JOKER
text: ALL UNITS! SOUTHBOUND ON RIVERVIEW!
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: The JOKER'S ARMY. THUGS in cars. CREEPS in Italian
text: restaurants. CROOKED COPS at a coffee shop. LIGHTS FLASH,
text: BEEPERS SOUND, and within seconds they're racing to the
text: streets, eager to join the chase.
scene_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS - THE STREETS
text: COP CARS. GOON CARS. THE BATMOBILE streaks through an
text: intersection, nearly causing a pileup. THE JOKER'S VAN
text: makes short work of a SABRETT'S HOT DOG STAND in its path.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - THAT MOMENT
text: PEDESTRIANS GAWK as the sleek supercar RIPS UP THE
scene_heading: PAVEMENT.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What about her? What about the girl?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: He won't kill her.
dialog: (gritting his teeth)
speaker_heading: GODDAMMIT!
text: They're moving up on an EMPTY BLOCK -- a NIGHT CONSTRUCTION
text: TEAM. A HUGE PIECE OF HEAVY MACHINERY backs up slowly and
text: inexorably, BLOCKING THE INTERSECTION.
text: BATMAN GUNS THE ENGINE. SWERVES LEFT. TRIES TO SLIDE PAST.
text: And HITS THE BRAKES -- stopping inches short of a head-on
text: collision with a lamppost.
text: He jumps out of the car. No chance to get through. THE
text: JOKER'S VAN is two blocks back and coming up fast.
text: ONLOOKERS and CONSTRUCTION WORKERS are beginning to form a
text: crowd around them.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Can't we --
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Too many people. Come on!
text: (as she scrambles out)
dialog: SHIELDS!!
text: The BATMOBILE's computerized VOICE replies:
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Shields.
text: With a series or CLANGS, CHROME-STEEL PLATES slide into
text: place -- across the cockpit, over the tires -- leaving the
text: BATMOBILE an inert, impenetrable BLOCK OF BLACK METAL.
text: BATMAN and VICKI sprint through the CONSTRUCTION SITE,
text: vaulting over mounds of loose dirt and concrete rubble.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - MOVING - NIGHT
text: THREE POLICE CARS, red lights blazing, OVERTAKE THE JOKER'S
text: VAN and bear down on the abandoned BATMOBILE.
speaker_heading: GOON AT WHEEL
dialog: Are they ours?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: ... I don't know. We'd better get out
dialog: of here.
speaker_heading: (into RADIO MIKE)
dialog: Westbound on 36th. DO YOU COPY??
text: The VAN does a discreet U-turn and rumbles off sedately
text: down the street.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BATMAN and VICKI zigzag past storefronts and candy stands,
text: dodging astonished PEDESTRIANS.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: FOUR GOONS with GUNS. They spot BATMAN and VICKI coming off
text: the side street. GOON I, the driver, speaks into a radio:
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: We got 'em!
speaker_heading: JOKER (V.O.)
dialog: (over radio)
dialog: Take 'em! I want his head!
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BATMAN and VICKI race down the sidewalk. The car is gaining
text: on them; and then, from behind --
text: BATMAN and VICKI are caught in a SPRAY OF BULLETS. They
dialog: dive. Drop behind a parked car. And don't come up.
text: They've ducked into a BLIND ALLEY.
scene_heading: INT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT
text: Hunkered on the pavement, they watch the car glide past the
text: mouth of the alley. VICKI sighs in relief. BATMAN -- still
text: alert, his muscles tensed -- puts a restraining hand on her
text: arm. He looks overhead, sees a catwalk spanning the width
text: of the alleyway five stories up.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: How much do you weigh?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... A hundred and eight?
text: He does some quick mental calculations. A beat. Then the
text: CAR reappears -- backing up -- blocking their only avenue
text: of escape. BATMAN unfurls a rope, HEAVES A BATARANG UPWARD,
text: and grabs VICKI roughly about the waist.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
speaker_heading: HANG ON!
text: The JOKER'S THUGS pile out of the car. The BATARANG catches
text: on the catwalk, and BATMAN triggers the spring-action REEL
text: on his utility belt -- jerking him and VICKI INTO THE AIR.
text: BULLETS zing past as they whip upward like fish on a line.
dialog: One story; two stories; and then...
text: They slow. They STOP. They DANGLE IN MIDAIR as the Joker's
text: goons advance. BATMAN wriggles, twists. They lurch upward
text: another few feet -- and stop again. VICKI SCREAMS.
text: Her additional weight is too much for the reel mechanism. They're
text: stranded two stories up -- SITTING DUCKS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Whatever happens -- DON'T LET GO!!
text: In the wink of an eye he's detached the reel from his own
text: waist and hitched it around VICKI's belt. Before she has a
text: chance to protest, he LETS GO.
text: VICKI rockets upward at blinding speed, shrieking all the
text: way. BATMAN, his cape billowing, PLUMMETS DOWNWARD.
text: VICKI slams up into the catwalk and BOBS on the end of the
text: line as BATMAN lands with a loud crash, overturning a row
text: of garbage cans. The GOONS are on him in a flash -- one per
text: limb. Random kicking and flailing. BATMAN manages to slam
text: two GOONS into a wall, but before he can get to his feet --
text: -- GOON #3 slams a lead pipe into the back of his skull.
text: BATMAN is down for the count. The THUGS dust themselves off
text: and circle around his prostrate form, still wary.
text: The LEAD THUG holds his colleagues back, draws his gun, and
text: fires TWO SHOTS, point-blank, at the yellow-and-black
text: INSIGNE on BATMAN's chest. The body jerks.
text: They move closer. And stop.
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: ... No blood.
speaker_heading: GOON II
dialog: Jesus.
speaker_heading: GOON III
dialog: Wait a minute.
text: GOON III screws up his courage and crouches beside the
text: body. He examines THE BATMAN'S TUNIC... and RIPS IT OPEN.
speaker_heading: GOON IV
dialog: ... What is that?
speaker_heading: GOON III
text: Some kind of body armor.
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: He's human after all. -- Take that
dialog: mask off.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ON VICKI
text: Five stories overhead, VICKI has pulled herself up onto the
text: roof of the adjacent building. She watches transfixed as
text: the THUGS bend over to remove BATMAN's cowl. But at this
text: height -- and this angle -- she can't see his face. On a
text: sudden impulse she reaches for her CAMERA BAG.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON GOONS
text: peering-down open-mouthed at the unconscious face of BRUCE
text: WAYNE. Blood seeps from BRUCE's left nostril.
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: Well?... Who is this guy?
speaker_heading: GOON II
dialog: I dunno. You seen him before?
speaker_heading: GOON III
dialog: Maybe he's got some kind of I.D.
speaker_heading: GOON IV
dialog: Good idea. Let's check his wallet.
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: We'll worry about it later. Plug
dialog: him.
dialog: (beat)
text: In the head.
text: GOON II draws his automatic. And at that very instant... A
text: FLASH GUN EXPLODES OVERHEAD.
text: Startled, the THUGS look up. ANOTHER CAMERA FLASH.
speaker_heading: GOON III
dialog: Goddam, it's the redhead!
speaker_heading: ON VICKI
text: A chunk of ledge chips off mere inches from her head as the
text: GOONS OPEN FIRE. She ducks back behind the overhang, holds
text: the camera out over the ledge, and KEEPS ON FLASHING.
speaker_heading: ON BRUCE
text: HIS EYES WINK OPEN.
speaker_heading: ON VICKI
text: momentarily idle. She's used up her roll. The GOONS KEEP
text: SHOOTING as she reaches in her bag for new film. She finds
text: it, loads the camera with astonishing dexterity -- and
text: then, on instinct, reaches back inside the bag for a
text: TELEPHOTO LENS. All the better to see you with, Batman...
speaker_heading: ON THE THUGS
text: No response from VICKI. They begin to relax a little.
speaker_heading: GOON II
dialog: Did you hit her?
speaker_heading: GOON I
dialog: Who cares? Wax that freak.
text: They turn their attention to BRUCE. A GLOVED HAND snakes
text: out with lightning speed -- GRABBING GOON I BY THE COATTAIL
text: and pulling him DIRECTLY INTO THE LINE OF FIRE. GOON II bas
text: pulled the trigger twice before he knows what's happened.
text: In one fluid motion BRUCE HEAVES GOON I's lifeless body
text: THROUGH THE AIR, knocking GOON II backward over a garbage
text: can. GOON II falls and CRACKS HIS HEAD on the nearest wall.
text: GOON III takes a rabbit punch to the throat. He's on the
text: way down when he catches a STEEL-TOED BOOT in the gut.
text: Four seconds after all this began, BRUCE is alone in the
text: alleyway with GOON IV. GOON IV has his gun pointed right at
text: BRUCE, but he's shaking too much to pull the trigger.
text: BRUCE smiles. GOON IV SCREAMS and RUNS FOR HIS LIFE.
text: Through all this, VICKI's telephoto camera has been poised
text: on the ledge, snapping away. BRUCE looks up at the FLASH
text: GUN and shakes his head. He bends to retrieve his cowl.
speaker_heading: ON VICKI
text: She finally dares to peek down at the alley. Limp goons
text: everywhere. And, in addition, THE BATMAN -- leaping up,
text: grabbing the edge of a fire escape, climbing up to meet
dialog: her.
text: VICKI thinks fast. She may have a clean shot of BATMAN'S
text: FACE. She advances the film in the camera and removes the
text: roll, then drops it down her blouse.
text: But BATMAN is likely to want that roll. So she straightens
text: her skirt and scurries across the roof, away from the
text: alley. She should have a minute or so before be gets there.
text: It's a three-foot drop to the next roof over. VICKI
text: clambers down and quickens her pace, tossing a nervous
text: glance over her shoulder every couple of steps.
dialog: Then, somehow -- and she'll be damned if she can figure out
text: how -- she walks smack into THE BATMAN. And GASPS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ... Not even a 'thank you'?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Well -- I think you might consider
dialog: thanking me. You were good as
dialog: dead.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That's because you lied about your
dialog: weight.
dialog: (a long pause)
dialog: Thank you.
text: VICKI NODS and tries to walk past him. He grabs her arm.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: I'll have to ask you for that film.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I just wanted to distract them. I
dialog: wasn't trying to get a picture of
dialog: you.
text: BATMAN looks down at the camera hanging from her neck. The
text: telephoto lens must jut out six inches. VICKI gulps.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Please.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I won't let you have it.
text: THE BATMAN is amused. He smiles menacingly.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: I know you can break my neck and
dialog: take it. But the Joker's on that
dialog: same roll. I --
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: The Joker is a murderer. And you
dialog: were as good as dead. So --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Look, I appreciate what you did for
dialog: me. But this is my job. And I'm
dialog: keeping those pictures.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: All right, here's a compromise. I'll
dialog: develop the photos. You keep the
dialog: Jokers and I'll keep the rest.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: How do I know you won't keep them
dialog: all?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Because I'll take you with me.
text: He reaches out, holds her gently by the shoulders. His
text: voice is deep and soothing. True, VICKI is a little dizzy
text: from all that's happened, but she's undeniably drawn to
dialog: him.
text: Still cautious, though. She reaches into her bag and hands
text: over a roll of film. The original roll -- not the telephoto
text: shots, which are still stashed in her blouse.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Thank you, Vicki.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... Where are you going to take me?
text: No reply. She looks up into his mirrored eyes. He pulls her
text: closer to him. Brushes back her hair, runs one hand
text: delicately along the line of her cheek...
text: ... AND BREAKS A TINY CAPSULE under her nose. VICKI SLUMPS
text: into BATMAN's arms.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT
text: Street level. BATMAN emerges carrying VICKI's inert form in
text: his arms. He pauses and peers around the edge of a wall at
text: the BATMOBILE two blocks down.
text: The car is still there, the chrome-steel shields intact.
text: But DOZENS OF COPS and CURIOSITY-SEEKERS are SWARMING ALL
text: OVER the fearsome machine.
text: BATMAN snorts in frustration. AN ENORMOUS THREE-TON
text: CATERPILLAR WINCH rumbles up the street toward the
dialog: Batmobile.
text: He's about to get towed. BATMAN takes a RADIO TRANSMITTER
text: from his utility belt and SPEAKS INTO IT.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: Shields open.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - ON BATMOBILE
text: TWO COPS are crawling along the hood of the car. From
text: within they hear the tinny computerized voice:
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
text: Shields open.
text: The steel plates begin to retract.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (V.O.)
dialog: (over radio)
dialog: Ignition.
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: Ignition.
text: The stunned COPS gaze into the Batmobile's cockpit.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: There's somebody in there!
text: They TUMBLE OFF THE HOOD as the turbine engines ROAR TO
text: LIFE and THE BATMOBILE BEGINS TO MOVE.
text: COPS AND ONLOOKERS quickly clear a path. They stand there
text: stunned as the futuristic auto PICKS UP SPEED and advances
text: toward the end of the block. The LEFT TURN SIGNAL flashes
text: dutifully. And the BATMOBILE VANISHES AROUND THE CORNER.
text: PANDEMONIUM BREAKS LOOSE as the COPS bolt for their cars.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: SIRENS WAIL. PASSERSBY STARE SLACKJAWED at the driverless
text: BATMOBILE as it tears down the street, passing, darting,
text: dodging buses and CUTTING OFF TAXIS -- all with a squad of
text: COP CARS in hot pursuit.
scene_heading: EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT
text: BATMAN sees the BATMOBILE rounding the corner and
text: approaching on the straightaway. He takes VICKI in his arms
text: and STEPS DIRECTLY INTO THE PATH OF THE ONRUSHING
scene_heading: HEADLIGHTS.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: STOP!
text: BRAKES SQUEAL. The BATMOBILE stops one yard short of BATMAN
text: and VICKI. A moment later BATMAN is AT THE WHEEL.
text: SIRENS BUILD. LIGHTS FLASH. The COP CARS are now visible
text: behind them. BATMAN floors the pedal; the Batmobile's
text: powerful AFTERBURNERS kick in; and the hapless cops KILL
text: THEIR SIRENS as BATMAN zooms off into the night at 140 mph.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. BACK ROAD - NIGHT
text: A deserted stretch of road, lined by ancient tall pines on
text: either side. The BATMOBILE roars past.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - NIGHT
text: VICKI is gradually coming to on the passenger's side.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... How long have I been out?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Quite a while. I took the scenic
dialog: route.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (gazing around her)
dialog: Well, I've certainly enjoyed it.
dialog: What's that?
text: He's just hit a BUTTON on the dashboard.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: Garage door.
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: At the side of the road, a FALLEN TREE, surrounded by
text: underbrush, RISES HYDRAULICALLY INTO THE AIR -- revealing a
text: SECRET ROAD invisible from the main thoroughfare.
text: Doing sixty, the BATMOBILE makes a hairpin turn. Seconds
text: later, the FALLEN TREE drops back magically into place.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: As they cruise down the hidden road, VICKI STUDIES BATMAN'S
text: FACE. KNOX's words are very much on her mind.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I meant to ask you. Up on the roof
dialog: -- how did you know my name?
text: BATMAN SMILES in response. VICKI smiles with him.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: I'm serious. How did you know?
text: No reply. VICKI frowns, looks through the windshield, and
text: SEES -- much to her horror -- an enormous SHEER CLIFF WALL
text: LOOMING DEAD AHEAD.
text: Wide-eyed, she looks at BATMAN. Still smiling, he HITS THE
text: GAS -- SPEEDING UP. She lets out a SCREAM.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CLIFF WALL
text: One second to impact. Suddenly the cliff wall VANISHES
text: ALTOGETHER -- revealing, in its place, the GAPING MOUTH OF
scene_heading: AN UNDERGROUND CAVERN.
text: The Batmobile zooms through. A moment later, the CLIFF WALL
text: -- which is nothing more than a HOLOGRAPHIC PROJECTION --
text: winks back into existence, showing no trace of the cavern.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT
dialog: We all know this place. Although we haven't had time to
text: acquire the familiar mementos -- the dinosaur, the giant
text: penny -- the BATCAVE is unmistakable. Vast banks of
text: blinking computers. A state-of-the-art crime lab. A fully-
dialog: equipped workshop for hammering out new toys. It's the
dialog: biggest and best secret clubhouse a boy could wish for.
text: BATMAN climbs out of the car. He removes his cape, strips
text: off his bullet-riddled jersey and his body armor. There are
text: TWO BIG BRUISES on the center of his chest.
text: VICKI looks on as he goes to a rack along one wall and
text: picks out a fresh tunic -- one of four. She wanders over to
text: examine the row of bat-suits -- and the BODY ARMOR.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What is this stuff? Kevlar?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Better. It's not on the market yet.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: It doesn't protect your head,
dialog: though.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: That's why I wear a target on my
dialog: chest.
text: THE BATMAN takes obvious pleasure in showing her his
text: futuristic bachelor's pad. His tone is jokey, almost
text: flirtatious. Behind the mask, he's a lot looser, more
dialog: carefree, than some guys we could name...
dialog: ... like Bruce Wayne.
text: VICKI is, to put it mildly, awed. She wanders around gaping
text: at millions of dollars' worth of equipment.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: How'd you find this place?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Stumbled across it when I was a boy.
text: VICKI'S HEAD jerks up abruptly. In the dim recesses
text: overhead, BATS ARE SCREAMING. She shivers.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: They don't come down here. They're
text: afraid of the lights.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I don't like bats. Not that kind.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: They used to terrify me. But I
dialog: forced myself to keep coming back,
dialog: and --
dialog: (smiling)
dialog: -- I guess I became the thing I
dialog: feared the most. I'll do your photos
dialog: now.
text: He goes to a HIGH-SPEED PHOTO PROCESSING MACHINE -- the
dialog: kind they have at Fotomat, only better -- and loads the
dialog: roll.
text: VICKI wanders over to the edge of a DEEP BLACK PIT. She
text: kicks a pebble over. Long seconds pass; no sound.
text: She looks up. Suspended over the bottomless pit are a pair
text: of GYMNAST'S RINGS. This guy is dedicated.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Who pays for all this?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I have sponsors.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: The computers?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm running a check on the tainted
text: products. There is a pattern.
dialog: Beauty products. Personal hygiene.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: No more makeup. -- Looks like we'll
dialog: all be showing our true faces now.
text: She looks straight at him. It's almost a direct request.
text: But BATMAN is preoccupied with the matter at hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I've tracked all the records. Every
dialog: shipment, every warehouse, every
dialog: loading dock. Nothing. No
dialog: opportunities for tampering. Somehow
dialog: the Joker is supplying tainted
dialog: ingredients... at the source.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Wait. You can just tap into any
dialog: corporate database you want?
dialog: Anywhere?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Oh, no. I let the FBI do that. Then
dialog: I tap into the FBI. -- Your photos
dialog: are ready.
text: He holds up a hand to VICKI: stand back. Then he checks out
text: the pictures -- SMILING as he shuffles through the prints.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You could've killed him, you know.
dialog: You could have killed the Joker.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I had to save you, Vicki.
dialog: (turning to face her)
dialog: Here you go. I think I'll let you
dialog: keep the whole set.
text: She looks at the photos. Joker. Joker. Joker. And four
text: shots of the BATMAN in action. He's without his mask, but
text: there's no clean angle on his face.
text: VICKI doesn't quite know why, but her head is reeling.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Care for an autograph?
text: He takes one of the prints, scrawls on it, hands it to her
text: with the inscription: "TO VICKI. LOVE, B."
text: Now he turns to shut down the photo machine. VICKI is
text: trembling. Her hand goes to her belt, finds the telephoto
text: roll concealed in her blouse. She steps up silently behind
text: him, reaches for his cowl. At the last second... she STOPS.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... Bruce?
text: HE FREEZES IN PLACE for an indecisive moment. Then:
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Are you talking to me?
text: He turns in seeming incomprehension. And shows her a
text: SMILE... the same crooked, curious, childlike smile she saw
text: on BRUCE's face that morning when she caught him singing.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Maybe we've had enough for one
dialog: night. I'll take you home.
text: Almost in a trance now, she lets him lead her to the
text: BATMOBILE. As she takes her seat he reaches into his
text: utility belt for another KNOCKOUT CAPSULE.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Do you want to do it this time?
text: VICKI doesn't move. She looks at the capsule in her hand as
text: he walks over to the driver's side and gets in.
speaker_heading: BATMAN (cont.)
dialog: Don't be afraid. I'm here.
text: She takes one last look at the familiar SMILE beneath the
text: mask... then breaks the capsule and BREATHES DEEP.
text: FLAME ERUPTS from the rear of the Batmobile as the after-
text: burners kick in and BATMAN screeches off. A FIERY RED GLOW
text: fills the screen, BURNING OUT THE IMAGE as we
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - 1963 - NIGHT (DREAM SEQUENCE)
text: The red glow resolves itself into a DREAMLIKE STREET SCENE:
text: liquid, weightless figures moving in a tinted, soundless
text: cityscape as DISTANT, TINKLY CARNIVAL MUSIC plays
text: underneath. We're outside a theatre watching first-nighters
text: emerge from the opening of a hit musical.
text: In the crowd we pick out THREE FIGURES: DR. THOMAS WAYNE,
text: his wife MARTHA, and -- in THOMAS's arms -- their young son
text: BRUCE. BRUCE hasn't made it through the show. He's asleep,
text: head nestled peacefully against his father's shoulder.
text: THOMAS rouses the boy gently, sets him down on the
text: sidewalk. BRUCE rubs the sleep from his eyes as THOMAS puts
text: an arm around his wife. Together they begin walking.
text: IN A SINGLE CUT the crowd has DISAPPEARED, and the WAYNES
text: are walking toward us up a deserted street. THOMAS and
text: MARTHA are laughing, making jokes, reaching down to tousle
text: BRUCE's hair. Their FACES, as they draw closer, are FULL OF
text: JOY. And then, without warning --
text: A HANDGUN enters frame.
text: The WAYNES freeze in their tracks. THOMAS steps
text: protectively in front of his wife, reaches for his wallet,
text: begins unbuckling his watch. He won't put up a fight.
text: MARTHA's hand goes involuntarily to the PEARL NECKLACE at
text: her throat.
text: The GUNMAN sees it, gestures for her to hand it over. But
text: MARTHA is paralyzed, afraid to move.
text: The GUNMAN steps past THOMAS, SNATCHES AT THE NECKLACE.
text: The instant his wife is threatened, THOMAS ATTACKS. The
text: pearl strand BREAKS in the GUNMAN'S HAND as he drops toward
dialog: the sidewalk.
text: A SILENT BURST OF FLAME erupts from the muzzle of the gun.
text: THOMAS CRUMPLES. MARTHA emits a PIERCING SHRIEK -- a shriek
dialog: we cannot hear --
text: -- a shriek cut short by a second burst of flame.
text: BRUCE stands paralyzed in shock. THE GUNMAN scoops a
text: handful of pearls off the sidewalk, reaches for MARTHA's
text: purse, and rises slowly -- his gun levelled directly at the
dialog: boy.
text: Almost catatonic, BRUCE stares down at the corpses of his
text: parents. At their hands, somehow intertwined. At the tiny
text: glinting pearls and the spreading pool of blood around
dialog: them.
text: He looks up with a gaze so bleak, so petrifying... that the
text: GUNMAN turns and runs.
dialog: AND WE CUT. To an exact reproduction of the Pulitzer Prize-
text: winning photo... the cops bent over the bodies, the medics
text: with their stretchers, the boy BRUCE, his arms wrapped
text: tightly around the waist of OFFICER GORDON.
text: There's only one difference. BRUCE's head is turned away
text: from us. We can't see his face.
text: And now a HAND enters the frame. Much like the GUNMAN's
text: hand, but feminine, beckoning. BRUCE, hearing his name,
text: LOOKS UP; then, agonized, ashamed, he BURIES HIS FACE in
text: GORDON's side. GORDON gestures angrily at the intruder.
text: But the hand keeps beckoning. And ultimately BRUCE turns.
text: Showing us the tear-stained face from the famous photo. A
text: face slack with horror. The horror of his parents' death...
dialog: and more importantly, the horror that someone would dare to
dialog: violate this most private and terrible of moments.
text: At last we see what BRUCE sees: a WOMAN crouched on the
text: sidewalk nearby. The WOMAN is holding a camera. The WOMAN
text: is smiling prettily at BRUCE.
speaker_heading: The WOMAN is VICKI VALE.
text: A FLASHBULB EXPLODES. FILLING. THE SCREEN with its blinding
text: white light, SCORCHING OUT THE IMAGE as a HARSH RINGING
text: SOUND cuts through the silence.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: VICKI AWAKENS. She sits up in bed, tremulous, distraught.
text: The bedside phone is ringing. She reaches for it, but her
text: hand freezes in midair. She knows who's calling.
text: Three rings later, she manages to lift the receiver. To her
text: amazement, she finds she cannot speak. Finally, she hears a
text: VOICE at the other end of the line.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (V.O.)
dialog: Vicki... ?
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S STUDY - NIGHT
text: BRUCE at a big mahogany desk in his somber, book-lined
text: study. The room is dark but for a small table lamp.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Vicki, I've been thinking about you.
dialog: (long pause)
dialog: I know it's late. I'm sorry. I --
dialog: Are you there?
scene_heading: INTERCUT BRUCE AND VICKI
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Yes, Bruce -- I'm here --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm sorry about the way things went
dialog: between us. I'd very much like to
dialog: see you again.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Well, Bruce... I don't think... that
dialog: would be possible.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I wish you'd reconsider.
dialog: (groping)
dialog: I didn't stand you up today. The
dialog: museum was closed when I got there.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I, uh...
speaker_heading: ON VICKI
text: Her voice trails off. She's profoundly shaken. She knows.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (V.O.)
dialog: Vicki? Vi --
text: She returns the receiver to its cradle.
speaker_heading: ON BRUCE
text: He hears the click. His lips part slightly. He hangs up and
text: sits there at the desk, staring straight ahead.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S BATHROOM - NIGHT
text: TOTAL DARKNESS. VICKI stands before the bathroom mirror.
text: She holds the OPENED ROLL OF TELEPHOTO SHOTS over the sink.
text: Then she strikes a match. IGNITES the film. Drops it into
text: the sink, and -- with hollow eyes -- WATCHES IT BURN.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - LATER - NIGHT
text: It's four in the morning. VICKI, wrapped in a bathrobe,
text: still shaky, pours her fifth cup of coffee. Sitting across
text: from her is a rumpled and stubbly ALEXANDER KNOX.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Vicki, it all fits. The stuff you're
dialog: telling me -- the car, the equipment
dialog: -- somebody's paying for it.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I just can't --
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: The FBI. You know who's got the FBI
dialog: computer contract? Wayne
dialog: Technologies.
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: The guy's bats all right. He's bat
dialog: shit crazy. This is gonna be the
dialog: most incredible --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: But he's not.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Not what?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: He's not crazy.
text: KNOX slaps his forehead in frustration, sprawls back in his
dialog: chair.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Vicki. We got a wealthy millionaire
dialog: here... who dresses up like a bat. He
text: goes out at night and swings around
text: -- in his cape -- on a rope.
dialog: (throwing up his hands)
dialog: Okay. Maybe I'm crazy.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Allie... he wants to tell me.
dialog: That's why he took me there. Because
dialog: he's trying to tell me.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Gimme a break. If he wants to chat,
text: he can talk to his car.
text: The joke dies. VICKI stares dead ahead. KNOX looks on in
text: utter disbelief as it all comes into focus: he's lost her
text: loyalty. VICKI is in over her head with BRUCE.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: He has to tell someone. And I'm the
dialog: one. He's trying to tell me.
text: KNOX, hurt in a way he doesn't fully understand, gets up
text: and pulls on his coat. He stares at her coldly:
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Well, when he does you know my
dialog: number.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. NEWSSTAND - DAY
text: CUSTOMERS are lining up to buy the early edition of the
text: Globe, which carries the full-page banner headline:
text: WAR OF THE FREAKS
text: Batman, Joker in Fluegelheim Shootout
text: In the midst of the hubbub a DELIVERY TRUCK cruises past,
text: dumping a bundle of AFTERNOON EDITIONS on the sidewalk.
text: "WAR OF THE FREAKS" has been relegated to the lower right-
text: hand corner of the page -- supplanted by more pressing
dialog: news:
scene_heading: STOCK MARKET CRASHES
dialog: Product Scare Drops Dow to 1100
dialog: Biggest One-Day Decline in History
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE FOUNDATION - DAY
text: BRUCE in a plush office suite downtown, on the phone to his
text: broker. Behind his desk is a big plate-glass window with a
text: fortieth-floor view of the financial district, so he can
text: wave at his fellow millionaires on their way down.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't sell. It won't last. We'll
dialog: ride it out.
text: With exaggerated calm, he hangs up. He lifts the receiver
text: to dial another number, then hesitates and hangs up again.
scene_heading: INT. RECEPTION AREA - A MOMENT LATER - DAY
text: BRUCE, affecting an air of nonchalance, strolls past a
text: squad of SECRETARIES at desks. Phones are ringing off the
dialog: hook.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER - DAY
text: BRUCE ambles past a couple of COLLEAGUES. One of them is
text: shambling catatonically down the hall, bumping into walls.
text: The other is WAILING HYSTERICALLY.
scene_heading: WAILING COLLEAGUE
dialog: ... a nine-million-dollar bath!
text: BRUCE nods in sympathy as they pass. He stops outside the
text: door to a men's room, looks around cautiously, then enters.
scene_heading: INT. MEN'S ROOM - A MOMENT LATER - DAY
text: A small anteroom outside the bathroom proper, with a bank
text: of PAY PHONES on one wall. BRUCE checks the bathroom to
text: make sure it's empty, then digs out a quarter and dials a
text: number. He cups one hand confidentially over the receiver:
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (the familiar rasp)
dialog: Vicki?... This is Batman. I thought
dialog: I'd call and see how you're doing.
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - DAY
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (hesitantly)
dialog: ... I know it's you, Bruce. I'm not
dialog: going to talk to you unless we can
dialog: discuss it.
scene_heading: INT. MEN'S ROOM - ON BRUCE
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (a little smile)
dialog: Who's this "Bruce"? Are you trying
dialog: to make me jealous?
speaker_heading: VICKI (V.O.)
dialog: (filter)
dialog: I'm serious, Bruce. We have to --
text: At this very moment, a DAZED FINANCIER enters from behind.
speaker_heading: FINANCIER
dialog: Hi, Bruce.
text: BRUCE automatically claps a hand over the mouthpiece. His
text: face goes slack as he hangs up -- with VICKI'S TINNY VOICE
text: still squeaking on the other end of the line.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - NIGHT
text: HARVEY DENT at a big desk, flanked by a number of
speaker_heading: POLITICOS.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: ... We deal.
speaker_heading: ADVISER
dialog: Harvey, please. I mean --
dialog: (shaking his head)
dialog: If your first official act as D.A.
dialog: is to cut a deal with a
dialog: terrorist...
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: Screw that, Ed. We've got a market
dialog: panic of national proportions.
dialog: -- We've got 786 people dead.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: I won't sacrifice one more life for
dialog: the sake of appearing strong.
speaker_heading: POLITICO
dialog: Harvey's right. We've got the 300th
text: anniversary gala coming up. The
dialog: networks won't even send in a crew.
speaker_heading: ADVISER
dialog: Harvey, the police are working round
text: the clock, the feds are coming in.
dialog: This thing could break any minute
dialog: now.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Tell him, Jim.
text: COMMISSIONER GORDON reaches into his vest pocket for a
text: cigar. He clips the end off, lights it, takes a long
text: drag... and STARES GLUMLY at the floor.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Cut the deal.
scene_heading: INT. CITY HALL - NIGHT
text: The MAYOR sits impatiently at a long table, flanked by JIM
text: GORDON, HARVEY DENT, and other prominent officials. The
text: room is packed with REPORTERS and TV NEWS CREWS.
speaker_heading: NEWS ANCHOR
text: ... at City Hall, where the mayor is
dialog: waiting to open negotiations with
dialog: the clown-faced terrorist known as
text: the Joker. It is now eight minutes
dialog: past the appointed deadline, and
dialog: still no word from --
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - CITY ROOM - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: REPORTERS cluster around a bank of four TV sets, each tuned
text: to a different station, all broadcasting from city Hall.
speaker_heading: REPORTER I
dialog: Look at 'em sweat. Can't wait for
text: the next Gallup Poll.
speaker_heading: REPORTER II
dialog: Hey Knox, cheer up. It ain't the
dialog: Batman but it's pretty choice.
text: KNOX, who has recently taken up smoking, responds with a
text: grunt. SUDDEN HUBBUB from the ONLOOKERS as a wave of VIDEO
text: NOISE wipes half the screen away.
scene_heading: INSERT - TELEVISION SCREEN
text: Split-screen. On one side is the MAYOR. On the other --
text: sitting in a director's chair with a big yellow HAPPY-FACE
text: BACKDROP behind him -- is the JOKER, grinning fiendishly.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Joker here. Can we talk?
text: The MAYOR fumbles for his prepared statement.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: "While this administration remains
dialog: vehemently opposed to terrorism in
dialog: any form, we are prepared to
dialog: negotiate any reasonable demands
dialog: which will guarantee the safety of
dialog: the populace."
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Huh. Demands. Well, gents, this is
dialog: kinda embarrassing, but... I'm having
dialog: such a swell time, I just haven't
dialog: thought any up.
text: He shrugs. STARTLED REACTIONS from the city officials.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: But I'm a reasonable fella. If you
dialog: want to make me an offer...
text: Panicked, the MAYOR and co. go into a quick huddle.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: All right, all right. Here's the
dialog: deal. Total amnesty... and the sum of
dialog: ten million dollars, payable in --
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Ten million dollars. Ten million
dialog: dollars.
dialog: (flying off the handle)
dialog: Ten mi-- YOU CHEAPSKATES! I've just
dialog: wiped out the stock market. I've
dialog: cost you billions!
dialog: (petulantly)
dialog: I want ten million and one.
speaker_heading: MAYOR
dialog: No, wait, please! We'll talk. Just
dialog: tell us what you expect.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Goddammit, I expect to be treated
text: like an ARTIST. GET OFF MY SCREEN!!
text: MORE VIDEO STATIC sweeps across the screen, pushing the
text: MAYOR clean out of frame. The JOKER leers at the camera.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I might just think up some demands.
dialog: And I'm gonna talk to all my
dialog: friends, and see what they want,
dialog: too. And then maybe we'll get
dialog: together -- have a little party --
dialog: exchange presents.
dialog: (waving goodbye)
dialog: Happy Birthday, Gotham.
text: "The Shadow of Your Smile" comes up UNDERNEATH as the
text: JOKER's transmission ends and the SCREEN GOES BLACK.
scene_heading: INT. GLOBE CITY ROOM - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: FRANTIC ACTIVITY as REPORTERS rush to their telephones and
text: typewriters. KNOX strolls slowly back to his desk. He's
text: sitting on the biggest story of his career... and now, as
text: he realizes grimly, nobody knows or cares.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ANDREWS ISLAND - DAY
text: A tiny island in Gotham Harbor, homesite of LADY GOTHAM --
text: the huge, newly restored stone statue that welcomes
text: incoming ships. Her upper half is draped in a huge TARP
text: prior to the unveiling ceremony scheduled for this Sunday.
text: At the base of the statue, WORKMEN are assembling a big
text: wooden platform, complete with microphones, amplifiers and
text: spotlights. They raise a gigantic BANNER which reads:
scene_heading: "GOTHAM CITY -- 300TH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION."
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: A TAXI pulls away from the wrought-iron gate at the
text: entrance to the estate. KNOX ambles up to a stone pillar,
text: glances up at a VIDEO CAMERA mounted over the gate, and
text: hits a BUZZER.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (V.O.)
dialog: (through loudspeaker)
dialog: Yes?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Alexander Knox. Gotham Globe.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (V.O.)
text: Mr. Wayne is out for the day.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Actually, I wanted to talk to
dialog: Batman. Pass that on to Mr. Wayne,
dialog: would you?
text: KNOX starts cockily off down the driveway -- then STOPS.
text: Behind him, the iron gates are SLIDING OPEN.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S LIBRARY - TEN MINUTES LATER - DAY
text: KNOX, agitated, drums his fingers on the edge of a big
text: leather chair. BRUCE stands across from him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I've been expecting to hear from
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Well, that's how it is, chum. She
dialog: tells me everything.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What is it you want?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Simple. You know the score. One
dialog: column -- and I can bring all this
dialog: tumbling down. I can take you off
dialog: the streets once and for all.
dialog: (a shaky pause)
dialog: I want you to hang up the suit. And
dialog: I want you to stay away from Vicki.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I can't do that. Not while the
text: Joker's still out there.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Then stay away from Vicki. That's
dialog: all I want, man. I just want your
dialog: word.
text: BRUCE turns away, evading his gaze. KNOX fumbles in his
text: jacket for a cigarette.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: See, I don't know how it happened --
dialog: she's a smart girl and you are an
dialog: extraordinarily screwed-up guy -- but
dialog: she's in love with you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's something I don't
dialog: understand. If you've got the story,
dialog: why haven't you printed it?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Because I --
dialog: (beat)
dialog: Because she'd never speak to me
dialog: again.
text: KNOX is a bundle of nerves now. No longer cocky, he stubs
text: out his newly-lit cigarette -- and begins to PLEAD OPENLY.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Come on, Bruce. Be straight. What
dialog: have you got to offer? You gonna
dialog: marry her? Batman and Mrs. Batman?
dialog: (laughing bitterly)
dialog: Gimme a break, huh? Who's gonna be
dialog: Best Rodent?
text: BRUCE sinks into a chair, exhales sharply. He can't even
text: put up an argument. The two of them sit there, not looking
text: at each other, as ALFRED appears in the doorway.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Do you want a drink?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah, a drink. "Civilized." Man-to-
dialog: man, right?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred, bring something for Mr.
dialog: Knox. -- I'll have one too.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - LATE AFTERNOON
text: The weekend-long BIRTHDAY GALA is getting underway, and
text: Gotham Park is mobbed with CELEBRANTS enjoying a FREE
text: CONCERT. Onstage: FIVE ELVIS IMITATORS, dressed in
text: everything from black leather to white spangled jumpsuits,
dialog: representing the King in progressive stages of
dialog: deterioration.
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - DUSK
text: She's on the sofa beside a disconsolate BRUCE.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... So we just pretend none of this
dialog: ever happened. We never met. We --
dialog: (frightened)
dialog: You're going to get yourself killed,
dialog: Bruce. You know that, don't you?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It wouldn't matter much.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I don't understand it. You can do so
dialog: much good for people. As Bruce
dialog: Wayne.
text: He sinks back on the sofa, closes his eyes. He's had the
dialog: same argument with himself a thousand times.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Money makes money, Vicki. The
dialog: foundation runs itself. -- I'm
text: extraneous to the process.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You're one man. You can't save
dialog: everybody.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What it I could save a handful?
dialog: -- What if I could save one?
text: VICKI is sick of watching BRUCE torment himself. She stands
text: up, almost crying now, and ACCUSES HIM DIRECTLY:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Bruce, at the rate you're going, you
dialog: can't even save yourself.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (staring right at her)
dialog: Sometimes... I don't know if there's
dialog: enough of me left to save.
text: VICKI is totally drained. She heads for the kitchen.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, God. I've got to have some
dialog: coffee or something.
text: A moment's breather as BRUCE sits on the sofa reflecting.
text: Then, suddenly, a KNOCK at the door.
text: VICKI reappears and moves to answer the door. BRUCE -- on
text: his feet instantly -- grabs her by the shoulder.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Are you expecting anyone?
text: She nods no. He goes to the peephole in the door.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Who's there?
text: THROUGH THE PEEPHOLE he sees a DELIVERY BOY.
speaker_heading: DELIVERY BOY
dialog: Package tor Miss Vale.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Set it down by the door. On the
text: left-hand side.
text: The DELIVERY BOY sets the package down and wanders off,
text: tipless, muttering something about "cheap shits." After a
text: moment's interval, BRUCE opens the door and bends to pick
text: up the mysterious package.
text: Another brown-paper parcel... ADDRESSED IN CRAYON.
speaker_heading: VICKI
speaker_heading: BRUCE!
text: He strides past her, handling the parcel gingerly, and sets
text: it down on the kitchen counter.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: It's just like the last time. He
dialog: sent me a present before he --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Very thoughtful. Don't touch it.
text: As VICKI watches, he goes into the living-room and finds
text: his ALLIGATOR ATTACHE CASE. He opens the case, removes a
text: LAPTOP COMPUTER and a handful of business papers... then
text: lifts out a false bottom to reveal his UTILITY BELT.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, Bruce. Don't tell me you carry
dialog: it around with you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I feel naked without it.
text: He takes out a tiny ULTRASOUND SCANNER -- rather like a
text: stethoscope, with a miniature sonar display where the
text: earpieces should be -- and runs it over the package.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
text: Not a bomb. But it could be rigged.
text: Wait in the next room.
text: He takes a small GAS MASK from his belt, puts it on, then
text: SLITS THE WRAPPING with a steak knife.
text: Nothing. Cautiously, he pulls back the flaps. The box is
text: full of STYROFOAM POPCORN. BRUCE shoves a hand down into
text: the popcorn... and extracts a HUMAN EAR.
text: In the doorway behind him, VICKI lets out a squeal.
text: BRUCE grabs the box and dumps TWO DOZEN EARS on the
dialog: counter.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ... They're wax.
text: VICKI finds a hand-scrawled NOTE among the ears.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: "It worked for Van Gogh. Let's make
dialog: up. I'll need you soon." -- Whew.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (lost in thought)
dialog: That does it. It's going to be this
dialog: weekend.
text: The KITCHEN PHONE rings. VICKI reaches for the receiver.
text: Her eyes go wide and she gestures him over.
scene_heading: INT. ALICIA HUNT'S APARTMENT - THAT MOMENT
text: ALICIA, in her porcelain mask, on the phone.
speaker_heading: ALICIA
dialog: I thought you ought to know -- he's
dialog: coming for you...
scene_heading: ON BRUCE AND VICKI
text: Faces pressed together as they listen in. BRUCE covers the
text: mouthpiece with one hand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Keep her on the line!
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ... Where are you calling from?
text: As VICKI struggles to keep the conversation alive, BRUCE
text: rushes into the living room and crouches beside his LAPTOP
text: COMPUTER. He plugs it in, flips open the screen, punches up
dialog: a telecommunications program.
text: A moment later VICKI enters from the kitchen.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm sorry, she hung up. What are --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Finding out where she is.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: How can you do that if she's already
dialog: off the line?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I've had an automatic tracer on this
dialog: number ever since he tracked you to
dialog: the museum.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - THAT MOMENT
text: MASSIVE COMPUTERS click and whir. At BRUCE's prodding,
text: INFORMATION comes up on the monitor: a number, a name --
text: ALICIA HUNT -- and an East Side address.
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - THAT MOMENT - EVENING
text: THE SAME INFORMATION scrolls across BRUCE's screen.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Got it!
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What now!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Hang on. I have to leave a message.
text: HE FREEZES. He's heard something in the hallway outside.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - THAT MOMENT
text: ELEVATOR DOORS open on THREE THUGS. One of them uses a key
text: to lock the car in place on VICKI's floor. The key is on
text: the end of a ring which contains dozens of other keys.
text: The KEY RING belongs to a DOORMAN, who's riding in the
text: elevator with the JOKER's trio of thugs. He's dead, alas.
text: The THUGS dump him unceremoniously on the floor of the hall
text: and march toward VICKI's apartment.
scene_heading: INT. VICKI'S APARTMENT - A MOMENT LATER
text: BRUCE is nowhere in sight. VICKI is at the sink washing
text: dishes, acting nonchalant. She pretends not to hear the
text: DOOR unlocking behind her.
text: She turns -- and faces the THREE ADVANCING THUGS.
speaker_heading: THUG I
dialog: Hi, Miss Vale. Let's not put up a
dialog: fight, huh? 'Cause we'd hate to have
dialog: to --
text: BRUCE steps into the doorway behind them. With a single
text: sweep of the arm, he flings THREE DRUG-TIPPED NINJA WHEELS
text: at the thugs, catching one in the neck, one in the
text: shoulder, one in the hip. They COLLAPSE in quick
dialog: succession.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's a garage in this building?
text: VICKI nods yes. BRUCE -- all business now that he's in his
text: element -- disappears into VICKI's bedroom.
text: She peeks around the corner. He reemerges carrying a BLACK
text: NYLON STOCKING, which he stuffs into his pocket. VICKI is
text: full of question, but he shushes her before she can speak.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: I've got to take him out now.
text: He stoops down beside the THUGS and pulls the elevator key
text: off the key ring -- which he then tosses to VICKI.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Pick an apartment and stay there.
dialog: And listen: call the police. Give
dialog: them that address. Every available
dialog: man.
text: He starts out the door, stops just long enough to take a
text: dumbfounded VICKI in his arms for a kiss.
scene_heading: INT. UNDERGROUND GARAGE - A MOMENT LATER - EVENING
text: THE JOKER'S VAN, bearing the Monarch Playing Card logo. TWO
text: ARMED GOONS lean against the hood. They watch as the
text: elevator opens and an ordinary fellow in a suit steps out.
text: BRUCE pulls car keys from his pocket and strolls past the
text: thugs, head down, whistling. As he walks around the van,
text: his hand brushes against it -- leaving a MAGNETIZED HOMING
text: DEVICE, almost too tiny to notice, stuck to the fender.
text: He walks another six paces, then stops short. He feels
text: around in all his pockets, making a big show of having
dialog: forgotten something.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oh, hell!
text: The GOONS eye him curiously as he strides back toward the
text: elevator. The doors are closing before it strikes them that
text: something is amiss.
speaker_heading: GOON
dialog: Hey, boss, something's up. The
text: elevator's working.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - ON JOKER
text: Frustrated, snarling, ready to throw a tantrum.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: DAMMIT! You can't get good help
dialog: these days. -- Let's move out.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - EVENING - OVERHEAD ANGLE
text: From high above the street we see the JOKER'S VAN pulling
text: out of VICKI's building. We're up on the roof, with BRUCE.
text: He hits a button on his utility belt, and a RED SIGNAL
text: LIGHT begins to flash.
text: BRUCE clamps the utility belt around his waist. Pulls the
text: BLACK NYLON STOCKING over his head. And suddenly, he's
text: BOUNDING ACROSS THE ROOFTOPS in pursuit of the JOKER.
scene_heading: EXT. CROSS STREET - A MOMENT LATER - EVENING
text: The VAN turns right at the intersection. Nothing unusual.
text: But for some reason, PEDESTRIANS are pointing at the sky,
text: staring goggle-eyed at the rooftops.
text: Far above them, a MAN -- dressed in a suit, a tie, a yellow
text: belt and a BLACK STOCKING MASK -- is gliding across the
text: intersection on a ROPE.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - A MOMENT LATER
text: The VAN DRIVER guns through a red light. BRAKES SQUEAL on
text: either side. In the back of the van, the JOKER GROWLS:
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Slow down, you maniac!
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSECTION - THAT MOMENT - EVENING
text: As the VAN ROARS PAST, a MOUNTED POLICEMAN shakes his fist.
text: His horse shies, rears back, turns in a circle. He's just
text: about gotten the beast calmed down when a MAN IN A STOCKING
text: MASK plummets down on a rope from nowhere and lands
text: directly behind him on the horse's back.
text: BRUCE elbows the startled COP. Now there's only one rider.
text: The VAN turns left. BRUCE gallops straight ahead through
text: the intersection, hoping to cut the JOKER off.
scene_heading: INT. ALICIA HUNT'S APARTMENT - THAT MOMENT
text: ALICIA peers out through the window. On the street below,
text: UNMARKED CARS are converging.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: The JOKER and co. are two blocks away from ALICIA's. They
text: see a POLICE SWAT TEAM sealing off the building.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Boss! Jesus! They've --
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: They'll be sorry. They'll be
dialog: sorry. -- GET OUT OF HERE!
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET - THAT MOMENT - EVENING
text: BRUCE on horseback, charging past elegant old brownstones,
text: drawing stares from passersby. We get a quick look at the
text: FLASHING RED SIGNAL LIGHT on his belt.
scene_heading: EXT. RIVERVIEW DRIVE - THAT MOMENT - EVENING
text: A YELLOW VW BUG rips up the street at 70 mph.
scene_heading: INT. VOLKSWAGEN BUG - THAT MOMENT
text: We can't see the driver. But we do see, on the seat
text: beside him, a VIDEO DISPLAY with a shifting grid map of the
text: city -- and on it, a FLASHING SIGNAL blinking in perfect
text: sync with the one on BRUCE's belt.
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE STREET - THAT MOMENT
text: BRUCE sees the VW bug rounding the corner and STREAKING
text: TOWARD HIM. He reins in the horse; it rears back on its
text: hind legs in a classic western pose; the BUG zooms past --
text: -- and ALFRED THE BUTLER heaves out a BROWN LAUNDRY BUNDLE,
text: neatly tied in string.
text: BRUCE snatches it out of the air, gives ALFRED a quick
text: salute -- and the BUG is gone.
scene_heading: INT. JOKER'S VAN - EVENING
text: The JOKER and his boys are stalled in heavy traffic at the
text: southern border of Gotham Park. POLICE BARRICADES are
text: everywhere; the surrounding streets have been roped off for
text: the birthday gala. HORNS HONK in anger.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: MOVE! Can't you do something??
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: It's some kind of detour. They're
dialog: backed up for blocks!
text: The JOKER snorts. He happens to glance into the side-view
text: mirror. What he sees there... CURDLES HIS BLOOD.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Oh my God. How does he do it... ?
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - A BLOCK AWAY - THAT MOMENT
text: THE BATMAN, IN FULL COSTUMED GLORY, GALLOPING UP THE STREET
text: ON HORSEBACK -- passing stunned COPS, weaving in and around
text: the stalled autos, GAINING FAST on the JOKER.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER climbing all over the DRIVER. He HITS THE GAS,
text: RUNS THE VAN UP ON THE SIDEWALK, and -- at the first
text: opening he sees -- CRASHES THROUGH A POLICE BARRICADE INTO
text: GOTHAM PARK ITSELF.
text: BATMAN is half a block behind him now. As he follows hot on
text: the JOKER's heels, TWO HELICOPTERS swing into the park from
text: overhead.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - EVENING
text: CROWDS EVERYWHERE. On the central platform where we saw the
text: FREE CONCERT earlier, an EMCEE mans the microphone:
speaker_heading: EMCEE
dialog: -- the most spectacular, most death-
dialog: defying aerial stunt ever devised.
dialog: Tonight -- for the first time
dialog: anywhere -- THE FLYING GRAYSONS!
text: He points up at the two approaching HELICOPTERS, flying
text: side-by-side in tight formation some forty feet apart.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON HELICOPTERS
text: ONLOOKERS GASP as TWO TRAPEZES drop from the bellies of the
text: twin copters. Dangling from the trapezes are the FLYING
text: GRAYSONS -- a husband-and-wife aerialist team in spangled
text: red-and-green suits. They begin swinging toward each other
text: in a plane perpendicular to the path of the copters.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - GROUND LEVEL
text: PANIC DOWN BELOW as the JOKER's van barrels through the
text: crowd, HORN BLARING. BATMAN is moving up swiftly.
text: On each wrist he's wearing a MINIATURE ROCKET LAUNCHER. He
text: lets fly with TWO SALVOS. The first explodes harmlessly
text: against a tree. The second HITS THE REAR DOOR OF THE VAN --
text: driving it off the access road down into the brush, where
text: it nearly topples over sideways.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON FLYING GRAYSONS
text: GRAYSON has just completed a double somersault in midair,
text: landing in the capable hands of his wife. Now they're
text: swinging again, building momentum as he prepares to make
text: the return leap back to his own trapeze.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - THAT MOMENT
text: In the bay of the helicopter stands a kid, fifteen,
text: compact, tough, and wiry: DICK GRAYSON. Like his parents,
text: he's wearing a red-and-green suit. From the copter, he's
text: got a perfect bird's-eye view of the BATMAN-JOKER chase.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Ready to go, Dick?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: What's all the ruckus down there?
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - GROUND LEVEL - THAT MOMENT
text: The VAN bounces over rocks and bushes, narrowly avoiding
text: trees, with BATMAN in hot pursuit.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: At the foot of a hill, the JOKER spies a truck. On its
text: side, in bright red letters, a WARNING: "DANGER -
scene_heading: FIREWORKS. FLAMMABLE LOAD."
text: The JOKER reaches into the back for a HIGHWAY FLARE.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Head for the truck!
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - THAT MOMENT
text: Hovering over the chase scene, DICK catches sight of the
text: JOKER. He GASPS IN SHOCK as a LIT FLARE flies from the back
text: of the VAN... directly into the FIREWORKS TRUCK.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - GROUND LEVEL - A MOMENT LATER
text: THE BATMAN is thrown off his horse by the shock of a
text: massive EXPLOSION. All at once, THE SKY IS FULL of
text: BURSTING, INCANDESCENT COLORS!!
text: THE JOKER hangs out of the rear of the van, looking up, an
text: expression of PURE DELIGHT on his face.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I love fireworks!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON HELICOPTERS
text: LURCHING AND SPINNING IN THE SKY as FIREWORKS rocket past.
text: One of them takes a dead hit on the rotor. JOHN GRAYSON
text: falls to his death instantly; a moment later, the COPTER
text: plummets into the trees with a resounding, fiery CRASH.
text: MARY GRAYSON hangs from the second copter as it bobs and
text: weaves out of control. ONLOOKERS SCREAM IN TERROR.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER'S VAN bursts out of the park and speeds up a
text: wide, cordoned-off avenue. Overhead, THE SECOND COPTER
text: veers wildly, out of the park now, swinging dangerously
text: close to the tall buildings along the avenue.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - THAT MOMENT
text: DICK GRAYSON at the mouth of the bay, hanging on by a
text: canvas strap. He watches helplessly as his MOTHER swings
text: into a POWER LINE and drops three stories to the pavement.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: NO! NOOOOOOOO!!!!
text: His face is contorted with rage and pain. The PILOT
text: struggles desperately to right the copter, barely avoiding
text: a collision with the nearest building. And then -- before
text: THE PILOT can make a move to stop him -- DICK HAS JUMPED
text: OUT OF THE COPTER.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON DICK
text: With astonishing physical grace, he DIVES. GRABS A
text: FLAGPOLE. Executes a perfect somersault. FLIPS onto a
text: nearby fire escape. VAULTS to the next fire escape down.
text: And LEAPS OUT OVER THE STREET --
text: -- MAKING A PERFECT TWO-POINT LANDING on his intended
text: target... THE ROOF OF THE JOKER'S VAN!!
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER hears a THUNK overhead. He casually lifts his gun
text: and BLOWS A HOLE THROUGH THE ROOF OF THE VAN.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF VAN - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: The blast just misses DICK. He sprawls flat, YANKS at the
text: chrome luggage rack on the roof of the van, and BREAKS OFF
text: A FOUR-FOOT SHAFT OF METAL.
text: ANOTHER SHOT through the roof. DICK rolls forward, hoists
text: his chrome spear over the windshield.
scene_heading: INT. VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: SPLINTERED GLASS flies everywhere as DICK RAMS THE SHAFT
text: THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD. THE DRIVER dodges left and LOSES
text: CONTROL OF THE WHEEL.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF VAN - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: The VAN careens wildly toward an OVERPASS. DICK rises up
text: into a crouch just in time to see a sign which reads
text: "DANGER -- LOW CLEARANCE." He's about to get his head taken
dialog: off!
text: ONE SECOND BEFORE IMPACT a BLACK-CAPED SHADOW swings across
text: the street and SCOOPS DICK OFF THE ROOF OF THE VAN.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: BATMAN AND DICK tumble to the pavement. THE VAN knocks over
text: a fire hydrant and STOPS. DICK is already on his feet,
text: ready to CHARGE THE VAN, when BATMAN throws a powerful arm
text: around his waist.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: LET ME GO! LET ME --
text: THE JOKER steps casually out of the van. TWO GOONS with
text: MACHINE GUNS emerge behind him. PEDESTRIANS SCREAM as the
text: GOONS level their guns at the CROWD.
speaker_heading: DICK (cont.)
dialog: YOU PIECE OF -- YOU MOTHERF--
text: DICK is kicking, screaming, clawing, biting. BATMAN has his
text: hands full restraining the kid.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Like your boyfriend. He's kinda
dialog: hot.
dialog: (glowering at BATMAN)
text: Hands off the belt.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Take me. Let the boy go.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Gosh, I could kill you, but then
dialog: you'd miss my party. And I'd be
dialog: real, real sad if you couldn't make
dialog: it.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Batman! Don't you even recognize
dialog: your old pal Jack? After all...
dialog: (cackling insanely)
dialog: You made me what I am today.
text: BATMAN cocks his head in puzzlement as DISTANT SIRENS
text: BLARE. The JOKER and his HOODS -- guns still aimed at the
text: crowd -- back away and race off on foot, vanishing into the
dialog: night.
text: DICK BREAKS FREE and BOLTS AFTER THEM. BATMAN throws him to
text: the street with a flying tackle. The boy is hysterical.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: HE KILLED MY PARENTS! HE KILLED
speaker_heading: MY --
text: BATMAN flinches at the sound of the words. He reaches into
text: his belt and -- mercifully -- breaks a KNOCKOUT CAPSULE
text: under DICK's nose.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - TELEVISION SCREEN
text: A taped report from the hallway outside ALICIA's apartment.
text: COPS and FORENSICS MEN mill about in the b.g.
speaker_heading: REPORTER
dialog: ... on a tip attributed to the
dialog: mysterious Batman. The apartment was
text: booby-trapped with the Joker's
text: laughing gas, leaving 17 policemen
dialog: dead.
dialog: (beat)
text: Also found dead at the scene was
dialog: Alicia Hunt, 26, a former model --
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that the TV SCREEN is part of
text: BRUCE'S BANK OF MONITORS, deep in the Batcave. The other
text: screens show the various rooms of Wayne Manor, all empty.
text: We move now to the video display of a COMPUTER WORKSTATION,
text: showing TWO FACES side-by-side: a mug shot of JACK NAPIER
text: and a freeze-frame of the JOKER from one of his pirate
text: transmissions. A GRAPHICS PROGRAM abstracts the twin heads
text: into THREE-DIMENSIONAL, ROTATING TOPOLOGICAL GRIDS -- and,
text: as we watch, the two spinning heads COLLIDE AND MERGE.
text: Except for the fearsome grin, they MESH PERFECTLY.
text: Yet another terminal: BRUCE's database. The same phrase
text: flashes again and again, scrolling up the screen: ACE
scene_heading: CHEMICAL CO. ACE CHEMICAL CO. ACE CHEMICAL CO.
text: And, finally: BRUCE HIMSELF, slumped at a table, his head
text: in his hands. He's realized, to his horror, that he is
dialog: responsible for the birth of the Joker. And frankly...
dialog: he would just as soon be dead.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - GUEST BEDROOM - DAY
text: DICK GRAYSON is sprawled on a huge four-poster bed,
text: unconscious, softly moaning. He COMES TO with a jolt.
text: Breaking into a sweat almost instantly, he looks at his
text: unfamiliar surroundings. A shadowy figure stands nearby.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ... Where am I?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My name is Bruce Wayne. You're
dialog: welcome to stay here as long as you
dialog: want.
text: BRUCE steps out just as ALFRED enters with a breakfast
text: tray. DICK makes a puzzled face. What the hell is going on
dialog: here?
scene_heading: INT. HALL OF JUSTICE - DAY
text: Beneath the statue of blind Justice, BRUCE and HARVEY DENT
text: march through the portico, engaged in a heated argument.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: We'll send a team into Ace the
text: moment the warrant comes through.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He'll be ready when you do. Remember
dialog: what happened at the apartment.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: All right, Bruce, what do you
dialog: suggest?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I suggest a nice big bomb.
speaker_heading: DENT
text: Good. A bomb. On a blind tip from
dialog: Bruce Wayne. -- We do have laws.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Then for God's sake, Harvey, cancel
dialog: the anniversary celebration.
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: We've told him we'll deal. What
dialog: could he possibly have to gain by --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Do you still think the Joker cares
dialog: about money??
speaker_heading: DENT
dialog: I don't know. I'm just a D.A. I
dialog: don't have access to all your
dialog: expert sources.
text: Mexican standoff. BRUCE stalks off fuming. DENT hangs back
text: a moment, then turns down the hall.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - ESTABLISHING - DAY
text: The ornate, wrought-iron GATE which opens on the long
text: driveway snaking up toward Wayne Manor. It's bolted shut.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: A glass-enclosed room which houses an enormous HEATED
text: INDOOR SWIMMING POOL. DICK GRAYSON does a couple of laps,
text: then climbs out and towels himself off.
text: He looks out at the estate: tennis courts, a riding stable
text: in the distance. He's not happy. All this opulence could
text: drive a guy stark staring nuts in short order.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST BEDROOM - DAY
text: An OPEN SUITCASE on the bed. DICK fingers a gold ashtray
text: bearing the figure of Winged Victory -- then shrugs and
text: tosses it into the suitcase on top of his gymnast's
text: costume. When he looks up he sees BRUCE in the doorway
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ... Your butler wouldn't gimme a ride
dialog: so I figured I'd hoof it.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Sorry. I can't let you leave.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You can't keep me here, man. That's
dialog: kidnapping.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: If I let you leave, you'll do the
dialog: same thing again. You'll go after
dialog: the Joker... and you'll wind up dead.
dialog: (turning to go)
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey, man. Look at you. You're
dialog: rich. You got everything you want.
dialog: How do you know what's in my mind?
text: BRUCE turns to face him. The little hellion's eyes are
text: filled with raw, burning hatred. BRUCE knows the feeling.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't care what's in your mind.
dialog: You're staying.
text: BRUCE reaches for a key in his pocket. Without warning, the
text: kid RUSHES him, throwing a rock-solid punch. With blinding
text: speed, BRUCE sidesteps him, parries the blow, and winds up
text: spinning DICK around -- INTO A WALL.
text: DICK is stunned, but he has to laugh. This rich boy has a
text: move or two. BRUCE stands there, silently challenging him.
text: A second later, the kid is airborne -- upping the ante with
text: a scissor-kick aimed squarely at BRUCE's gut. In a blur of
text: motion BRUCE checks the kick, swings an arm into DICK's
text: chest, and sends the boy sprawling flat on his back.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - KITCHEN - THAT MOMENT
text: ALFRED, in his apron, fixing a tray of snacks. He looks up
text: curiously at the ceiling. From the sound of it, a battle
text: royal is shaping up in the guest bedroom.
scene_heading: INT. GUEST BEDROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: DICK'S BODY -- head down, feet up -- flies through the air.
text: He SMASHES INTO a closet door and slumps to the carpet.
text: Shaken now, and sweating profusely, he looks up at BRUCE...
text: who stands calmly over him, adjusting his necktie.
text: A long, tense moment passes between them. Then:
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ... You're him.
text: No reply from BRUCE. Their gazes lock. And suddenly...
speaker_heading: ALFRED (V.O.)
speaker_heading: FREEZE!
text: DICK and BRUCE look around. The puny, mustachioed butler
text: stands in the doorway, feet spread in a Dirty Harry stance,
text: a .44 MAGNUM trained on DICK.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's all right, Alfred. Everything's
text: under control.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: ... Very good, sir.
text: ALFRED relaxes, musters his dignity, and turns to go.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - AFTERNOON
text: CANNED APPLAUSE as THE JOKER marches out onto a makeshift
text: STAGE to give his QUARTERLY REPORT to the stockholders.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Thankya, thankya. Ladies and germs,
dialog: I'm here to tell you... we have had
dialog: one helluva quarter.
text: He waves a pointer at three SALES CHARTS on portable
dialog: easels.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
text: Panic's up. Terror's up. And fear --
dialog: fear's gone straight through the
dialog: roof. You guys should be proud --
dialog: 'cause I couldn'ta done it without
dialog: each and every one of you!
text: MORE CANNED APPLAUSE. The JOKER takes a bow.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I feel it's time to expand the
dialog: Joker line. I was askin' myself,
dialog: what are the products that every
dialog: consumer wants most? And that's when
dialog: it hit me: the water you drink, and
dialog: the air you breathe! Huh? Bingo!
dialog: (strutting across stage)
dialog: Now, some of you have your eye on
dialog: the profit margin. You're thinkin':
dialog: this boy's too ambitious. You
dialog: don't approve. In fact, some of you
dialog: have been talking about turning me
dialog: in to the cops. Or knocking me off.
text: He pauses. GLARES OUT at the audience. NO RESPONSE.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: But that's okay. I understand. Not
dialog: everyone shares my eye for beauty.
dialog: And just to show there's no hard
dialog: feelings, I'm throwin' a little
dialog: shindig tonight -- and you're all
dialog: invited!
text: THE CANNED APPLAUSE goes right off the meter.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: How 'bout it? IS EVERYBODY HAPPY??
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - THE AUDIENCE
text: Familiar faces all around -- the major players of the
text: Gotham underworld. But despite the enormous twisted grins,
text: no one here is laughing or applauding. No one here is
text: living. The JOKER is playing to a roomful of smiling
dialog: corpses.
text: One of them topples out of his chair and lands with a plop.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Look at that, folks. We got 'em
dialog: rolling in the aisles!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S BEDROOM - TOWARD DUSK
text: VICKI lies in BRUCE's bed, under the covers, propped up on
text: the pillows. BRUCE is in his robe over by the window,
text: looking out at his estate.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: All this apparatus, Vicki... this
dialog: house, and the money, and the
dialog: power... it was never mine. It was
dialog: something I inherited. Bruce Wayne
dialog: was something I inherited.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: All I ever hoped for was someone who
dialog: could see through Bruce -- who could
dialog: see me -- and not be frightened.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm not frightened of you, Bruce.
dialog: I'm frightened for you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: In all these years... why couldn't I
dialog: see how it would turn out?
text: He turns toward her. His face is ravaged with guilt. Now
text: she's truly afraid.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: I'm responsible, Vicki. If it wasn't
dialog: for me, there'd be no Joker.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - EVENING
text: TIGHT ON a tiny electronic device: two cylindrical steel
text: casings bracketed together, topped by a DIGITAL TIMER.
text: BRUCE makes a few adjustments with a jeweler's screwdriver,
text: hits a trigger, and watches the TIMER tick off seconds. 30.
text: 29. 28. At 25 seconds, BRUCE kills the
text: countdown and CLAMPS THE DEVICE into an empty packet on his
text: utility belt.
text: He stands up wearily. He's in his bat-suit, minus the cape
text: and cowl. Behind him, hanging back discreetly in the
text: shadows, is his loyal butler ALFRED.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Where's the boy?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Upstairs. He's quite docile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I know that feeling. It won't last.
text: BRUCE takes a moment to survey the Batcave as ALFRED looks
text: on tremulously.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: He's a long way ahead of where I was
text: at his age.
speaker_heading: (taking ALFRED's
dialog: shoulders)
dialog: I want you to treat him just as if
dialog: he were me. Promise.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Yes, sir.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He'll be taken care of financially.
dialog: Beyond that... you know what to do.
dialog: Don't let all this go to waste.
text: Their eyes lock for a long moment. ALFRED is unable to
text: speak. Finally BRUCE turns and starts slowly up the long
text: circular stairway which leads from the Batcave to Wayne
text: Manor. On the third step he pauses:
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Alfred? -- Thank you.
text: As BRUCE disappears up the stairs, a shaken ALFRED steadies
text: himself against a lab table, fighting back tears.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S BEDROOM - EVENING
text: BRUCE draws the curtains, sets an alarm clock. The current
text: time is 7:09 PM.
text: He sits cross-legged on the floor, slumps forward slightly,
text: and closes his eyes. He inhales, exhales, taking deep,
text: regular breaths. His muscles relax. Ten seconds later,
text: BRUCE has plunged into DEEP SLEEP.
text: Time passes. The clock shows 7:19, 7:32.
text: At 7:44 we TRACK IN on BRUCE's unconscious face, drawing
text: closer and closer until HIS EYELIDS FILL THE FRAME,
text: twitching with the irregular movement characteristic of
text: R.E.M. sleep. Without warning his EYES SNAP OPEN.
text: HOLD ON BRUCE'S GAZE -- grim, alert, determined -- as the
text: clock hits 7:45. An ALARM SOUNDS, BREAKING THE SILENCE with
text: its grating electronic WHINE.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL - AERIAL SHOT - NIGHT
text: The trademark ace on the illuminated sign. From our vantage
text: point high above, we can see THREE CARGO TRUCKS rolling out
text: the main gates. A half-mile away, THE BATMOBILE cruises up
text: the waterfront, approaching soundlessly, its headlights
text: off... preparing for a final showdown with the JOKER's
dialog: forces.
scene_heading: INT. ACE CHEMICAL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The JOKER'S MINIONS, working late, readying a huge
text: shipment. At an open loading bay, we find a DISPATCHER with
text: a clipboard, directing MORE UNMARKED TRUCKS in the lot
dialog: outside.
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER
dialog: Boston, Philly: loading bay one.
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The BATMOBILE stops short of the main gate. ENGINES ROAR
text: and the supercar ACCELERATES, SMASHING THROUGH THE GATE and
text: taking half the chain-link fence with it.
text: In the guard's booth, ARMED GOONS pull guns as the
text: BATMOBILE streaks across the parking lot and LAUNCHES A
text: ROCKET at the corrugated metal door which opens on the
text: factory floor. A THUNDEROUS EXPLOSION tears a gaping hole
text: in the door.
scene_heading: INT. ACE CHEMICAL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The BATMOBILE cruises through the flaming wreckage and
text: SKIDS TO A HALT on the refinery floor. The JOKER'S MEN are
text: everywhere. They take one look at the BATMOBILE, PANIC, and
text: PELT THE CAR with a barrage of MACHINE-GUN FIRE.
text: CRACKS begin to spread across the Batmobile's plexiglass
text: dome. Within moments, the windshield SHATTERS -- and
text: COLLAPSES ALTOGETHER.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - THAT MOMENT
text: BULLETS rip through the upholstered passenger seats. It
text: doesn't matter. The car is empty. No one's driving.
text: TRACK IN on the computer console -- where a familiar tinny
text: voice calmly repeats its pre-programmed command:
speaker_heading: COMPUTER
dialog: ... Detonate.
text: A beat. Then: BLAM.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE CAR - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A CONVOY approaches Ace Chemical -- GORDON's team preparing
text: to raid the plant. Inside each car: SPECIAL UNIT COPS
text: dressed in asbestos suits, gas masks in their laps.
text: All at once, a BRILLIANT RED GLARE suffuses the sky.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Good Lord!
scene_heading: EXT. ACE CHEMICAL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: THE JOKER'S MEN running for their lives across the parking
text: lot, KNOCKED FLAT by the force of SIX DEAFENING EXPLOSIONS.
text: For a few seconds everything is flame and fury. And then --
text: All that's left of Ace Chemical is a pile of charred rubble
text: and a PILLAR OF THICK BLACK SMOKE, spiraling up to the sky.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ANDREWS ISLAND - NIGHT
text: DAZZLING FIREWORKS explode in the night sky over Gotham
text: Harbor. SEARCHLIGHTS sweep across the mammoth, welcoming
text: stone figure of LADY GOTHAM -- still wrapped in canvas,
text: ready to be unveiled.
text: THOUSANDS OF RUBBERNECKERS jam every square inch of
text: Andrew's Island. COPS ON HORSEBACK speak into walkie-
text: talkies as they patrol the edges of the crowd. Across the
text: Harbor, Ace Chemical is going up in flames -- but as far as
text: the crowd can tell, with all the noise and excitement, it's
text: just another part of the celebration.
text: At the base of the statue, GOVERNOR GILROY speaks into a
dialog: microphone:
scene_heading: GOVERNOR GILROY
dialog: As Governor of this great state, it
dialog: is now my honor to unveil for you a
dialog: very special lady -- a lady who
dialog: stands tall for life and liberty --
dialog: America's favorite lady... LADY
speaker_heading: GOTHAM!
text: The CROWD begins to APPLAUD RHYTHMICALLY, chanting 'LADY
text: GOTHAM! LADY GOTHAM!' It's like Times Square on New Year's
text: Eve, waiting for the big ball to drop. GILROY hoists a pair
text: of oversized scissors and cuts a ceremonial ribbon:
text: hydraulic CRANES kick into gear: CABLES DROP FREE, and the
text: canvas cover draws back from LADY GOTHAM's face...
text: ... to a chorus of SCREAMS from the crowd. LADY GOTHAM IS
text: WEARING A GRISLY JOKER GRIN!!!
text: Suddenly -- in the midst of the hysteria -- THE
text: SEARCHLIGHTS DIE. The STAGE LIGHTS BLINK OUT. ANDREWS
text: ISLAND IS PLUNGED INTO DARKNESS. Instantaneous mass panic:
text: the GOVERNOR shouts to his aides as ONLOOKERS mob the
text: stage. COPS are knocked from their horses as the CROWD
text: stampedes. PANDEMONIUM RULES.
text: And across the harbor... block by block... GOTHAM CITY IS
text: GOING DARK.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SKIES - AERIAL SHOTS - NIGHT
text: QUICK SHOTS of FOUR HELICOPTERS hovering at different
text: points over the blacked-out city. LOUDSPEAKERS blare out a
scene_heading: PRE-RECORDED MESSAGE:
speaker_heading: JOKER (V.O.)
dialog: HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Gotham. Here's a
dialog: little token of my esteem. HAVE
dialog: FUN... 'cause THE PARTY'S ON ME!
text: INSANE LAUGHTER echoes. CARGO BAYS open wide. The JOKER'S
text: HELICOPTERS begin LEAFLETING THE CITY... with MONEY!
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: ANARCHY IN GOTHAM as high-denomination bills flutter to
text: earth, blanketing the streets. HOPELESSLY OUTMANNED COPS
text: try to maintain order as SOLID CITIZENS trample one another
text: in a paroxysm of ANIMAL GREED. BUILDINGS EMPTY as APARTMENT
text: DWELLERS race outside. ALL TRAFFIC STOPS as DRIVERS climb
text: out of their cars to SNATCH MONEY FROM THE AIR.
text: DARKNESS EVERYWHERE. In the pitch-black subways, TERRIFIED
text: COMMUTERS are seized by claustrophobia. GLASS SHATTERS,
text: DOORS BREAK OPEN as they claw their way out of stalled
text: subway cars and SPILL OUT onto the tracks.
text: On the streets above, GOTHAM'S CRIMINAL ELEMENT is having a
text: field day. The cops are preoccupied, utterly helpless
text: against the first waves of RIOTING AND LOOTING.
text: FLAMES ERUPT. PUNKS race down the street carrying fur coats
text: and color TV's. LOOTERS break through the display window of
text: an electronics store, and climb in among the goodies...
text: only to FLY OUT, two seconds later, on the wrong end of a
text: SHOTGUN BLAST. THE JOKER'S DREAM IS COMING TRUE.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - NIGHT
text: In a crouch on the pavement, snapping photos of the wild
dialog: street action, is VICKI -- fearless, professional, doing
text: her job. A battered FORD ESCORT cruises up behind her.
speaker_heading: KNOX
speaker_heading: VICKI!
text: VICKI sees KNOX, climbs into the passenger seat. He's
text: wearing a big smile. They're jazzed, oblivious to danger.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: Couldn't turn down the job, huh? A
dialog: girl could get hurt this way.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Yeah. Deja vu.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: What do you say? Let's head for the
dialog: lights.
text: In the distance, above the tops of the buildings, BEACONS
text: are sweeping the sky.
scene_heading: EXT. BROAD AVENUE - NIGHT
text: Stationed all up and down Gotham's widest thoroughfare are
text: huge portable SEARCHLIGHTS -- mounted on trucks with
text: portable generators, unaffected by the power outage.
text: On the money-covered sidewalks, TOTAL BEDLAM. But on the
text: street itself, a bizarre PARADE is taking place, just as if
text: nothing's wrong. Rumbling up the avenue at two-block
text: intervals, moored to floats, are DOZENS OF ENORMOUS
text: BALLOONS in the shapes of cartoon characters and historical
text: figures. It's like a hellish Thanksgiving's day procession.
text: The LEAD-OFF BALLOON is a gigantic, grotesque CLOWN --
text: smiling ghoulishly, dressed in white pierrot frills. We
text: TILT DOWN to the FLOAT BENEATH IT...
text: ... and there, atop a mountain of roses where the prom
text: queen should be, sits the JOKER -- smiling, waving daintily
text: at the rioters and looters, presiding over the carnage like
text: some demented parade marshal.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE - NIGHT
text: A desolate rural setting. UTTER SILENCE. Moonlight glints
text: on placid waters. We track in on a small sign bearing the
text: legend: "GOTHAM CITY RESERVOIR."
text: Far off in the distance, HEADLIGHTS ARE APPROACHING.
scene_heading: EXT. ACCESS ROAD - AERIAL SHOT - MOVING - NIGHT
text: The THREE CARGO TRUCKS from Ace Chemical roll ominously
text: TOWARD THE RESERVOIR on their deadly mission. And then -- A
text: STREAKING BLACK SHADOW ENTERS FRAME, overtaking the TRUCKS.
text: THE BATWING! A phenomenal ULTRALIGHT AIRCRAFT, swift,
text: sleek, jet-black and infinitely maneuverable, it SOARS
text: EASILY past the trucks, swooping low just long enough to
text: release a BOMB over a concrete bridge.
scene_heading: EXT. ACCESS ROAD - A MOMENT LATER
text: The BRIDGE EXPLODES, blocking the trucks' path to the
text: reservoir. PUZZLED DRIVERS climb out of their cabs and
dialog: wonder what to do next.
text: They spot the BATWING in the distance -- banking, doing a
text: sharp 180. For a moment they gape in disbelief. Then they
text: HEAD FOR THE TREES as the BATWING DIVES DIRECTLY AT THE
text: TRUCKS, firing THREE ARMOR-PIERCING SHELLS... and
text: destroying the JOKER's lethal cargo once and for all.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON BATMAN
text: in the cockpit, his jaw set, not even looking back at the
text: wreckage as his plane screams off toward the Gotham
text: skyline.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM STREET - NIGHT
text: FRIGHTENED PEDESTRIANS race past OVERTURNED CARS. A PARADE
text: FLOAT, run aground on the sidewalk, begins to BURN.
text: Above it, a damaged BALLOON -- the cartoon character
text: UNDERDOG -- is losing helium, warping and buckling in on
text: itself, sinking down gently toward the flames. Down the
text: street, KNOX'S FORD ESCORT is coming up fast.
scene_heading: INT. FORD - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: VICKI snapping photos out the window as UNDERDOG drifts
text: downward. FLAMES lick up at his belly -- and the cartoon
text: blimp EXPLODES.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: So much for Underdog.
text: THEN -- as they drive past -- A SECOND EXPLOSION. And all
text: at once the STREET IS FULL OF DEADLY GREENISH GAS!
speaker_heading: VICKI
text: ALLIE!! THE WINDOWS!!
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: The Ford Escort, windows up, swerves out of a THICK
text: SPREADING CLOUD of GREEN LAUGHING GAS -- threatening to
dialog: engulf the entire block!
scene_heading: INT. FORD - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: WHAT HAPPENED?!?
text: VICKI stares back at the green cloud. Turns. And sees, up
text: the street, THE JOKER'S PROCESSION: BALLOONS BY THE DOZEN!
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh my God. Compressor tanks. He's
dialog: got the balloons rigged with
dialog: compressor tanks!!
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Jesus Christ, the guy's a genius.
scene_heading: INT. BATWING - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BATMAN, at the controls, gliding over the Gotham streets.
text: He looks down, sees a BILLOWING HAZE of DENSE GREEN FUMES.
text: At its periphery: LOOTERS reeling and staggering, falling
text: to the pavement, LAUGHING THEMSELVES TO DEATH.
scene_heading: INT. FORD - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: VICKI staring through the windshield. Overhead, an AIRCRAFT
text: streaks past... an aircraft with SCALLOPED BLACK BAT WINGS.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: LOOK! IT'S BRUCE!!
dialog: (frantically)
dialog: Allie -- the balloons. We've got to
dialog: find some way to tell him!
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Great. How??
text: They speed up the street toward the PARADE. SPOTLIGHTS
text: SHINE. Suddenly KNOX's eyes bug out. He SLAMS ON THE BRAKES
text: and SKIDS TO A HALT.
speaker_heading: KNOX (cont.)
dialog: COME ON!
scene_heading: EXT. AVENUE - A SECOND LATER - NIGHT
text: Before VICKI can speak, KNOX has grabbed a tire iron from
text: the back of the car and RACED OUT ONTO THE STREET. He
text: flings the TIRE IRON through a glass STOREFRONT.
text: It's a COSTUME SHOP. In the window, MANNEQUINS dressed in
dialog: party costumes: Frankenstein. Ronald Reagan. And, that
dialog: current popular sensation... THE BATMAN.
text: As VICKI catches up with him, KNOX drags the Batman dummy
text: out of the store window. RIPS OFF ITS BLACK CAPE. And
text: DASHES MANIACALLY UP THE SIDEWALK.
text: Waving the cape, he VAULTS onto the back of a SPOTLIGHT
text: TRUCK. VICKI's face goes slack. Now she gets it.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: GIMME A HAND UP HERE!
text: VICKI climbs aboard. They drape the cape over the face of
text: the spotlight. Then they put their shoulders to the swivel
text: assembly -- tilting the spotlight -- AIMING THE BEAM...
text: ... DIRECTLY AT THE JOKER'S WHITE CLOWN BALLOON!!!
scene_heading: INT. BATWING - THAT MOMENT
text: BATMAN stares at the CLOWN BALLOON dead ahead. On its
text: massive distended belly... a BURNING YELLOW OVAL. And in
text: the center of the oval... THE BLACK SILHOUETTE OF A BAT.
text: BATMAN'S MOUTH drops open. He understands.
scene_heading: EXT. AVENUE - ON JOKER'S FLOAT - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER reaches into a big sack and begins distributing
text: MINIATURE GAS MASKS, like party favors, to his cronies on
text: the float. Then he pulls out a radio-operated REMOTE
text: CONTROL DEVICE and points it up at the CLOWN BALLOON.
text: He hits a button. The CLOWN begins to INFLATE. Its joints
text: bulge. Its FACE SWELLS UP as the COMPRESSOR TANK concealed
text: inside it releases its noxious contents. The JOKER is
text: BEAMING, a look of PURE UNALLOYED JOY on his face...
text: ... when his PARADE FLOAT BLOWS TO SMITHEREENS BENEATH HIM!
text: The JOKER and his men CARTWHEEL THROUGH THE AIR and TUMBLE
text: TO THE ASPHALT as THE BATWING WHIPS PAST OVERHEAD, soaring
text: through the stone canyons of Gotham at a 90-degree angle to
dialog: the ground!
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: No... NOOOOO!!!
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CLOWN BALLOON
text: as it rises, rises, swelling to grotesque proportions in
text: the starless night. The tallest buildings are far below it
text: now. Finally it BURSTS -- and the deadly GAS inside it
text: disperses harmlessly in the wind.
scene_heading: EXT. AVENUE - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER on the edge of a tantrum as he digs amid the
text: rubble of his float for the remote device. At last he finds
text: it; aims it up at the other balloons in the procession;
text: hits a button repeatedly...
text: ... and HOWLS IN FRUSTRATION. Nothing's happening. The
text: damned thing is broken. He heaves it to the street in a
text: fit of pique.
text: A SCREAMING COMES ACROSS THE SKY as the BATWING swings back
text: for another pass, BUZZING the JOKER at an altitude of
text: twenty feet. SIZZLING LASER FIRE sweeps the street.
text: CABLES SNAP and BALLOONS DRIFT UPWARD as BATMAN'S LASERS
text: sever their moorings. The JOKER can only look on
text: helplessly, in stunned disbelief.
text: As he's watching his plans evaporate... HIS EYES FALL ON
scene_heading: THE MAKESHIFT BAT-SIGNAL.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: There. There. -- GET 'EM!!
text: ANGLE ON SPOTLIGHT TRUCK
text: A SPRAY OF MACHINE-GUN FIRE shatters the Bat-signal. KNOX
text: throws VICKI to the street, ducks down behind the
text: spotlight, and tosses her his CAR KEYS.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: GET THE CAR!
text: The JOKER'S GOONS are coming up fast as VICKI reaches the
text: Ford, starts it, and comes ROARING UP toward KNOX. He jumps
text: off the truck as VICKI twists the wheel, lays a track of
text: rubber, and noses the car back in the opposite direction.
text: GUNFIRE as KNOX jumps inside and they PEEL OUT.
scene_heading: INT. FORD ESCORT - MOVING - A MOMENT LATER
text: KNOX's breathing is ragged, but he breaks out in HYSTERICAL
text: LAUGHTER nonetheless. The two of them are totally
text: exhilarated. They can't believe what they've just done.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: HOLY SHIT!!
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: You okay?
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Yeah. Yeah. Little winded. DID YOU
dialog: SEE THAT?!
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (laughing wildly)
dialog: God yes, Allie. I've gotta say --
dialog: that was the ballsiest move I
dialog: ever --
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: (ecstatic)
dialog: Holy shit. Holy --
text: He GURGLES. AN ENORMOUS GOUT OF BLOOD bubbles up between
text: his lips -- and BURSTS.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ALLIE!!
text: His hand goes to his stomach -- and comes away bloody. He
text: looks down in genuine bewilderment.
speaker_heading: KNOX
dialog: Jesus, Vicki.
text: That quickly, he's dead. VICKI lets out an awful wail and
text: slams on the brakes. She sits there in the middle of the
text: street, POUNDING THE WHEEL, TEARS pouring down her face.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT
text: In the sky, CARTOON CHARACTERS drift lazily out to sea.
scene_heading: EXT. BROAD AVENUE - NIGHT
text: THE JOKER and his boys running like hell down the avenue,
text: past the parade. They reach the last of the floats -- the
text: one bringing up the rear -- then CLIMB ABOARD and disappear
text: through a CONCEALED HATCH.
text: WOOD SPLINTERS as the top of the float begins to ROTATE
text: mysteriously. The muzzle of a CANNON breaks through the
text: parade decorations. And one moment later...
text: A ROSE-COVERED TANK is rumbling up Broad Avenue!
scene_heading: INT. BATWING - THAT MOMENT
text: BATMAN sweeps past overhead. He sees the tank, unleashes a
text: burst of LASER FIRE. It bounces harmlessly off the tank,
text: leaves a trail of SMOKING ASPHALT on the street. He swoops
text: low overhead, hits a button on his control panel as he
text: streaks OVER THE TANK and into firing range.
scene_heading: INT. TANK - THAT MOMENT
text: THE JOKER and his MEN clap hands to their ears as an EAR-
text: SPLITTING ULTRASONIC SHRIEK reverberates in the tank. The
text: JOKER screams out commands, to no avail. No one can hear
text: him. He falls on the controls, begins hitting buttons.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT
text: The TANK TURRET swings wildly. A HEAT-SEEKING MISSILE rips
text: through the night, narrowly missing the BATWING... and
text: BLOWING A HOLE in the side of a skyscraper.
scene_heading: INT. BATWING - THAT MOMENT
text: THE BLAST all but knocks the BATWING out of the sky. BATMAN
text: stabilizes the plane, climbs for the clouds. When he's
text: clear of the buildings, he grits his teeth and rolls out.
dialog: He's coming back for more!
scene_heading: INT. TANK - THAT MOMENT
text: The JOKER stares at a tiny BLIP on his radar screen.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: He'll be back... he'll be back!!
scene_heading: EXT. BROAD AVENUE - ON BATWING
text: The black ultralight hurtles down Broad Avenue at full
text: speed, on a suicide mission. MISSILES streak past on either
text: side. MACHINE GUN FIRE peppers the dome of the cockpit. The
text: REAR STABILIZER WING takes a direct hit... and BURSTS INTO
speaker_heading: FLAME!
text: The BATWING, trailing thick black smoke, bears down on the
text: tank like a kamikaze plane. BOMB BAYS OPEN as BATMAN dumps
text: the last of his high explosives DIRECTLY INTO THE PATH OF
text: THE TANK. The BATWING takes a hard bounce off the top of
text: the tank and CRASHES TO THE STREET.
text: And suddenly a GAPING CHASM opens underneath the tank as
text: the bombs go off -- and BROAD AVENUE BEGINS TO SPLIT WIDE
speaker_heading: OPEN!
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL - THAT MOMENT
text: BROKEN CONCRETE SLABS rain down on a SUBWAY CAR stalled in
scene_heading: the tunnel DIRECTLY BENEATH BROAD AVENUE. SUPPORT GIRDERS
text: groan and GIVE WAY as the STREET ITSELF COLLAPSES -- and
text: the front end of the TANK drops through, CRUSHING THE
text: SUBWAY TRAIN BENEATH IT!
scene_heading: EXT. BROAD AVENUE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The rear end of the TANK projects out through the rubble. A
text: hatch pops open. The JOKER crawls out through the smoke and
text: pulls himself up to the street.
text: He's down to his last three GOONS. He points to the
text: BATWING: bent, broken, WEDGED ON ITS SIDE in the asphalt
text: SEAM running up Broad Avenue -- half in, half out of the
dialog: tunnel.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: You do him. I'm outta here.
text: The GOONS look on in dismay as the JOKER scurries off. They
text: sidestep blackened debris and move up cautiously on the
text: Batwing. Through the cockpit dome they can see BATMAN...
text: inert in his harness, beaten to a pulp, all but dead.
text: A JET OF FLAME drives them back momentarily. They reach for
text: their guns, move in warily...
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: Yo.
text: The frightened GOONS turn in unison. An abrupt flurry of
text: motion -- feet and fists flying -- quick flashes of red and
dialog: green --
text: -- and THREE GOONS lie paralyzed on the street. The only
text: one left standing is a fifteen-year-old boy garbed in a
text: red-and-green aerialist's uniform... DICK GRAYSON.
scene_heading: INT. BATWING - THAT MOMENT
text: BATMAN slumps at the controls. Beneath him, asphalt SHIFTS
text: and BUCKLES. The Batwing lurches to the right, drops a foot
text: or two into the tunnel. Metal braces collapse and the
text: plexiglass dome of the cockpit SHATTERS LIKE AN EGGSHELL.
text: TONGUES OF FIRE lick at his face. He's helpless, pinned in
text: place. He manages to look up -- and SEES, through a dream-
text: like haze, A HAND extended toward him:
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: HEY! COME ON!
text: And suddenly DICK is clambering down into the flaming
text: wreckage. He gets an arm around BATMAN's chest and with an
text: extraordinary effort HAULS HIM OUT OF THE BATWING.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: They stagger across the ruptured street. BATMAN grimaces in
text: agony. His right leg -- shattered -- is like rubber beneath
text: him. His ribs are crushed. He's barely conscious.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Now we're even, huh? Even up.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: How did you...
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I hitched. MOVE IT!
text: DICK drags BATMAN to safety as the Batwing ERUPTS INTO
text: FLAME behind them.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: The Joker. Is he --?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Forget it. Relax.
dialog: (beat)
dialog: ... He's mine now.
text: DICK snatches an abandoned .38 off the pavement.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
speaker_heading: DICK!
text: THE BATMAN tries to pull himself erect. The pain is
text: unendurable. His body has finally failed him.
text: He collapses on the pavement, powerless to intervene, as
text: DICK races off with murder in his eyes.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM CATHEDRAL - NIGHT
text: A BELLTOWER's jagged spire, jutting up into the night sky,
text: piercing the moon. Down at street level, the JOKER is
text: scrambling up the marble steps at the entrance to the old
text: abandoned cathedral. He pulls a WALKIE-TALKIE off his belt.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Gotham cathedral. Come and get me.
text: HEAVY PANELED DOORS groan on tired hinges as THE JOKER
text: forces his way inside. A beat. Then DICK GRAYSON appears,
text: hot on his trail, sprinting up the steps two at a time.
scene_heading: INT. CATHEDRAL - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: Ancient and creepy. A huge pipe organ, shattered stained
text: glass windows, row after row of mahogany pews... all
text: forgotten, covered with dust and cobwebs. The JOKER wanders
text: about, staring at the statuary, the rusted icons.
text: DICK enters silently behind him. He kneels behind a rear
text: pew, brings up the gun, and squeezes off THREE QUICK SHOTS
text: at the JOKER. The JOKER dives, takes cover, and RETURNS
text: DICK'S FIRE. Then: silence.
text: In a crouch, groping his way along the wall, THE JOKER
text: finds what he wants: a small door opening on a wooden
text: stairway, leading to the belltower. He ducks inside and
text: starts up.
text: DICK'S GUN drops with a thud. His hand slips from the back
text: of the pew. In the second before he slumps to the floor,
text: unconscious, he sees a curious sight: a TINY BLACK NINJA
text: WHEEL, imbedded in the flesh of his leg.
text: Behind him -- framed in the arched doorway -- A RAGGED
text: BLACK GHOST begins his final unholy march down the center
text: aisle of the old cathedral.
scene_heading: INT. CATHEDRAL - BELLTOWER - NIGHT
text: A tiny stone chamber, 8'x8', open on four sides to the
text: wind. The enormous church bell has long since been removed.
text: The JOKER stands in an archway, gazing at the gargoyles on
text: the roof below. He hits a button on the walkie-talkie:
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: I'm in the belltower. Don't land.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - MOVING - NIGHT
text: A PILOT replies through his radio headset.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: E.T.A. two minutes. Hang on.
text: The PILOT swings the copter right in a wide, swooping arc.
scene_heading: INT. STAIRWAY TO BELLTOWER - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BATMAN. Broken, beaten, his right leg useless, he hauls
text: himself up the steps one at a time. He should be dead.
text: Dried blood cakes his face, his chest.
text: Dizzy, exhausted, his body strained to the limit, he slumps
text: against a wall to steady himself, then reaches into his
text: utility belt for a painkiller -- and forces the capsule
text: back onto his dry, swollen tongue.
text: Quaking all over, he tries to draw himself erect... and
text: TOPPLES OVER, landing with his full weight on the rotten
text: wood of the belltower stairs.
text: THE STAIRWAY COLLAPSES, turning to splinters beneath him.
text: And suddenly BATMAN finds himself DANGLING PRECARIOUSLY IN
text: MIDAIR, hanging by one hand to an upper step.
text: It would be so much easier to let go. He looks down at the
text: fragments of the shattered stairway, STILL FALLING,
text: vanishing into the dark depths of the stairwell.
text: Then he looks up. At the trapdoor. A mere six feet away.
text: His TEETH CLENCH in a monstrous grimace. AND WITH AN
text: INHUMAN EFFORT, HE HOISTS HIMSELF UP ONTO THE UPPER STEPS.
text: For a full five seconds he's blind with pain. A RAGGED
text: WOODEN SHAFT is buried in his right shoulder. Twitching,
text: trembling, he reaches up and YANKS IT OUT with his last
dialog: ounce of strength.
text: The trapdoor is a foot above his head. It could be a mile.
text: BATMAN finally realizes he's not going to make it.
text: He reaches down and rips open a Velcro seal on his utility
text: belt, revealing the strange TIMER DEVICE we saw him making
text: earlier. Before he can activate it his hand falls limply at
dialog: his side.
text: THE BATMAN is out like a light.
scene_heading: INT. BELLTOWER - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The JOKER glances casually down at the trapdoor, wondering
text: what all the noise is about. He draws his gun, moves
text: cautiously to the trapdoor, and lifts it a few inches...
text: just enough to see the unconscious form on the stairs.
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: ... Batman?
text: No reply. The JOKER stands there and lets out a little
text: snicker. He looks out through the archway, sees no sign of
text: his rescue copter. Then -- a look of curious amusement on
text: his face -- he steps down THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR and LUGS
text: BATMAN up into the belltower.
text: He props BATMAN up against a wall. Still no sign of life.
text: The JOKER crouches beside him and -- almost tenderly --
text: pats his face.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Batman? Batman?
text: THE BATMAN's lips part. But he's too weak to speak.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I thought you'd be more comfortable
text: here in the belfry.
dialog: (chuckling to himself)
dialog: Before I kill you I'd like to see
dialog: who you are. Would that be okay?
text: BATMAN emits a tiny low moan. The JOKER takes it as a yes
text: and reaches over to undo his cowl.
text: BRUCE WAYNE stares up with dulled, sightless eyes. The
text: JOKER reaches into his pocket for a purple handkerchief,
text: moistens it, dabs at the caked blood on BRUCE's face.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Oh my, aren't we pretty.
dialog: (brightening suddenly)
dialog: I know you! You're the rich boy!!
text: The JOKER is enormously tickled by this discovery. He claps
text: his hands together in sheer glee.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: My goodness, what in the world made
dialog: you do it? It must've been
dialog: something pretty terrible!
text: He's practically dancing now. He's made a friend.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: You know, we should've sat down and
dialog: had us a little heart-to-heart. I
dialog: bet we would have got on famously.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Mad... man...
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Well now, you're not exactly the
dialog: picture of mental health, are you.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ... Murderer...
speaker_heading: JOKER
dialog: Bruce, we're both murderers. Think
dialog: how many people you've killed by
dialog: letting me live.
text: A SPOTLIGHT cuts through the night sky. The JOKER hears his
text: helicopter approaching in the distance.
text: BRUCE reaches down furtively. Finds the timer on his
text: utility belt. FLICKS A SWITCH... and the countdown begins.
text: The JOKER pulls a straight razor from his pocket and opens
text: it gingerly.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: I have to do it now, Bruce, but it
dialog: won't even hurt. Now relax. The
dialog: bat's in his belfry, all's right
dialog: with the world...
text: He has the razor almost up to BRUCE's throat when BRUCE
text: reaches out and GRABS HIS LAPELS in a death grip. The JOKER
text: is momentarily amused by this seeming display of affection.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: Why, Bruce...
text: Then he hears ticking.
text: Looks down at the flashing digital display on BRUCE's belt.
dialog: 0:26 seconds. 0:25 seconds.
text: He SHRIEKS HORRIFICALLY and DROPS THE RAZOR.
text: BRUCE won't let go of him. Finally he manages to lurch
text: convulsively away, sprawling on the floor of the belfry.
text: BRUCE is wearing a great big Joker smile.
speaker_heading: JOKER (cont.)
dialog: IT'S NOT FUNNY!!!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No... sense... of humor?
text: The JOKER reaches out for the ticking time bomb. Thinks
text: better of it and retracts his shaking hand.
text: He can see the copter approaching now, slicing through the
text: clouds. He screams, waves a flashlight in the air: his
text: signal beacon. 0:20 and counting.
text: The JOKER scans the belltower frantically. His eyes fall on
text: the trapdoor. He races over, flings it open, starts down
text: the stairs in a frenzy.
text: There are no stairs. They've collapsed. 0:16 and
dialog: counting.
text: Screaming insanely, the JOKER vaults through the door and
text: makes for the open stone archway. The copter is directly
text: overhead now. A rope ladder drops from its belly.
scene_heading: EXT. BELLTOWER - THAT MOMENT
text: The helicopter descends, its whirling blades stirring up a
text: windstorm on the roof of the old abandoned cathedral. DEAD
text: LEAVES rise and swirl in the churning air.
scene_heading: INT. BELLTOWER
text: The JOKER makes a futile grab at the rope ladder, almost
text: losing his purchase on the archway parapet. He gestures
text: wildly for the copter to make another pass. 0:12 to go.
scene_heading: EXT. BELLTOWER
text: A maelstrom of swirling leaves. And now, among the leaves
text: -- roused from their resting place in the rotten rafters of
dialog: the old cathedral --
text: -- A HORDE OF SQUEALING, CHITTERING BATS!! Filling the air
text: like a black cloud, HUNDREDS OF THEM, taking flight in
text: blind uncomprehending fury --
scene_heading: INT. BELLTOWER
text: The JOKER leaps into empty space, grabs hold of the ladder,
text: cackles in mad triumph --
text: -- AND SUDDENLY THE BELLTOWER IS FULL OF BATS. A SCREECHING
text: SWARM, HIDEOUS, BLACK-WINGED -- SWOOPING THROUGH THE
text: ARCHWAYS DIRECTLY AT THE JOKER --
scene_heading: -- WHO SCREAMS IN TERROR -- LETS GO OF THE LADDER --
text: -- and plunges into the night.
text: TIGHT ON BATMAN. Six seconds remain. There is still time if
text: he makes his choice now.
text: Surrounded by the flapping of leathery wings, his body
text: working on pure adrenalin, he unbuckles the belt. Lurches
text: into position. Heaves it out into the darkness.
text: It snags on the bottom rung of the dangling rope ladder.
scene_heading: INT. HELICOPTER - POV CO-PILOT
text: The CO-PILOT is hanging out one side of the copter, just
dialog: enough to see what's going on.
speaker_heading: CO-PILOT
dialog: PULL UP!! PULL --
scene_heading: EXT. CHURCHYARD - OVERHEAD ANGLE
text: It's as if time has stopped. The world has grown suddenly
text: silent. We're looking down at the JOKER, whose body lies
text: splayed and broken on the flagstone surface of the
dialog: churchyard. Slowly, elegantly -- we have all the time in
text: the world, now -- we DRIFT DOWNWARD, closer, until his FACE
text: FILLS THE SCREEN, the familiar chilling grin still intact.
text: Sad clown, A-one crazy boy, staring aimlessly at the stars.
text: Suddenly his face is bathed in a brilliant gasoline GLOW.
speaker_heading: POV JOKER
text: Looking up he sees a beautiful display of fireworks,
text: bursting and burning, spirals of color snaking through the
text: sky as the helicopter explodes in eerie silence.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - THE JOKER'S FACE
text: It's all so lovely. The JOKER's expression is happy, almost
text: childlike, as he gazes up at this private show. Gradually,
text: though, the bright colors fade; and the JOKER's face begins
text: to relax, the twisted grin dissolving at last as darkness
text: sets in.
scene_heading: FADE THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - NIGHT
text: AN ANCHORWOMAN delivering an oncamera EDITORIAL.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: As the details of the Joker's
text: heinous plan become known, a city's
text: gratitude goes out to the mysterious
text: Batman. His whereabouts remain
dialog: unknown, but Batman -- if you're
dialog: alive -- if you're listening --
dialog: thank you.
scene_heading: EXT. CEMETERY - DAY
text: VICKI at a fresh gravesite. She places a FLORAL ARRANGEMENT
text: in the urn at the head of the grave; stands back to examine
text: it; then bends once more to reposition the drooping
dialog: flowers.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I loved you too.
text: As soon as the words come out, she begins to CRY. Then she
text: gets hold of herself; rises; turns up her collar; and goes.
text: The headstone reads: "ALEXANDER KNOX, 1956-1987."
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - STUDY - DAY
text: ALFRED, in his apron, on the phone.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No, Mr. Wayne is in Thailand. I'm
text: afraid he's quite unreachable.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY
text: The glass-enclosed room which houses BRUCE's Olympic-sized
text: SWIMMING POOL. Outside, snow is falling.
text: In the pool, on an inflatable rubber raft, is BRUCE WAYNE.
text: Beside him, waist-deep is the water, is VICKI -- helping
text: him rehabilitate his leg and shoulder.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I don't know why I'm doing this. I
dialog: half wish you'd stay a cripple.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Ohhhh... you don't mean that.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: (grasping for words)
dialog: I don't, but... I do. It's just... I
dialog: love you, Bruce. I --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (taking her hand)
dialog: Vicki. Do you love half of me? Or
dialog: all of me?
text: A hard question for VICKI to answer. She thinks it over for
text: several beats, then SMILES... SLOWLY, SADLY.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I guess you did it, didn't you. You
dialog: saved everyone.
dialog: (pause)
dialog: Almost.
text: For a moment he stares deeply into her eyes. Then he pulls
text: her over, takes her in a tight embrace.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't know how to explain this so
dialog: it makes sense... but you saved
dialog: me.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - THAT MOMENT - DAY
text: DICK GRAYSON stands at the brink of the bottomless pit and
text: looks up at the GYMNAST'S RINGS suspended overhead. He sets
text: his jaw and then -- with only a moment's hesitation --
text: LEAPS INTO THE VOID.
text: His hands find the rings. He launches himself HIGH INTO THE
text: AIR and does a spectacular TRIPLE SOMERSAULT, catching the
text: rings on his way down.
text: Exhilarated, he makes a perfect landing on the edge of the
text: pit. 10-point-0. A SMILE OF PLEASURE comes to his lips.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - GOTHAM CITY - NIGHT
text: A dark, moonless night. LIGHTS OF THE CITY sparkle in the
text: distance. CAMERA DRIFTS across the rooftop, settling
text: finally on the broad back of a BLACK-CAPED FIGURE poised at
text: the edge of the roof, gazing down on the streets below.
text: A SECOND FIGURE enters frame. We get a brief glimpse of his
text: RED-AND-GREEN SUIT in the seconds before our EYES TURN
text: SKYWARD... to the SEARING YELLOW SPOTLIGHT sweeping through
text: the clouds. In its center: the VAST BLACK SILHOUETTE of a
text: BAT, wings extended, DOMINATING the night sky.
text: We HOLD on the GLARING BAT-SIGNAL as BATMAN and ROBIN
text: vanish over the edge of the roof, plunging down toward new
dialog: adventures. MUSIC BUILDS and we
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
dialog: June 24, 1994
scene_heading: 1 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 1
text: A castle of shadow. (OVER) RAIN, HOWLING evil wind.
text: Sudden lightning CRACKS, illuminates the aged structure,
text: the hanging metal sign.
scene_heading: 2 INT. ASYLUM CORRIDORS - NIGHT 2
text: DR. BURTON, the Chief Psychiatrist moves down the old
text: hallway, face tense. He steps through a doorway into...
scene_heading: 3 INT. MAXIMUM SECURITY - NIGHT 3
text: Security cells. Criminal maniacs sealed behind protective
text: casings.
text: A GUARD stands before a heavy door.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Hell of a night, huh Doc?
speaker_heading: BURTON
dialog: Hell's in here.
text: Hydraulics HISS. The cell door unseals.
scene_heading: 4 INT. SECURE ISOLATION CELL 4
text: Small. Walls, ceiling, floor, padded. A single window
text: casts the room in pallid moonlight.
text: A figure sits in shadow, bound by the wraps and ties of a
text: straight jacket, gaze fixed out the window.
text: Lightning flashes, brightening the room. THUNDER CRACKS.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Mr. Dent...
text: No answer. Burton steps closer.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Counselor...
text: Still nothing. Another step.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Harvey....
text: Burton reaches towards the figure.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Harvey are you alright...
text: Burton touches his shoulder. Lightning flashes as...
text: THE BODY WHIPS around. An orderly, gagged, sits bound to
text: the chair with bedsheets.
text: The sheets around the chair have been rigged. Now they
text: yank him up so he spins frantically from the ceiling fan.
text: Lightning flashes again, illuminating a madman's scrawled
text: writing on the wall.
scene_heading: WRITING - CLOSE. "The Bat Must Die!" THUNDER
scene_heading: 5 EXT. GOTHAM CITY SKYLINE - SUNSET - FALL 5
text: Gothic towers of granite and glass shimmer golden in the
dialog: late day sun.
text: 6 MOVE IN towards the city as an executive helicopter 6
text: CROSSES FRAME. Through the window BRUCE WAYNE, still
text: handsome but a few lines starting to show, sits watching
text: a seatback video screen.
text: 7 CONTINUE In over Gotham Harbor towards the skyline as 7
scene_heading: (OVER) A NEWSCASTER talks.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
dialog: ...And in Gotham City, ex-District
dialog: Attorney Harvey Dent escaped from
dialog: Arkham Asylum for the Criminally
dialog: Insane.
text: 8 CLOSER on a single building, its power generated by a 8
text: small but mighty dam below. A glowing sign reads Wayne
dialog: Enterprises.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (OVER)
dialog: Dent, once Gotham's leading
dialog: contender for Mayor, was horribly
dialog: scarred during an indictment hearing
dialog: over a year ago.
text: HOLD on a single window. MOVE IN
scene_heading: 9 INT. BRUCE WAYNE'S OFFICE 9
text: Elegant. Oak. A wall monitor runs the same newscast.
scene_heading: 10 INSERT SCREEN 10
text: Dent questions a crime boss on the stand. A thug throws a
text: vial of acid toward Harvey, searing half his face.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER (OVER)
dialog: Dent, whose left-brain was damaged
dialog: during the assault, launched a
dialog: grizzly crime spree before being
text: captured by The Batman. He is
dialog: extremely dangerous. Repeat....
speaker_heading: 11 WIDER 11
text: Bruce Wayne ENTERS, his Armani suit the only thing fresh
text: about him, followed by a sudden stream of EXECUTIVES,
scene_heading: SECRETARIES, ASSISTANTS and GOTHAM SOCIETY MATRONS.
speaker_heading: EXECUTIVE
text: The solar generator tests are back.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Uh... great, could you wait a
dialog: second...
speaker_heading: ASSISTANT
dialog: The Mayor's office called again -
speaker_heading: SOCIETY MATRON
dialog: Who are you asking to the circus -
speaker_heading: SECRETARY
dialog: Five minutes to your inspection -
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Stop!
text: Everybody freezes.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Okay, I want you all to just stand
dialog: here for fifteen seconds, okay?
dialog: Fifteen, everybody got it?
dialog: Folks nod.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good. Nobody move, now.
text: And with that, Bruce turns and walks out.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: I gotta give myself a raise...
scene_heading: 12 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - ELECTRONICS DIVISION - TWILIGHT 12
text: Endless work-spaces stretching into infinity.
text: Bruce, a Junior Exec ENTOURAGE trailing, tours an
text: assembly line where robotic arms weld laser tools.
text: FRED STICKLEY, a fuss-budget plant manager, leads.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Your weekly inspections are a
dialog: departmental highlight.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Really?
dialog: (a warm smile)
dialog: You all need to get out more.
text: 13 CRANE UP high over the factory floor, across acres of 13
text: assembly lines and work stations.
speaker_heading: ANGLE DOWN on
scene_heading: 14 INT. EDWARD NYGMA'S WORK STATION (CONTINUOUS) 14
text: A clutter of computer parts. Paperwork everywhere.
text: Rubik's cubes, games, dozens of puzzle books all boasting
text: the green suited caricature of "The Guesser".
scene_heading: 15 MONITOR-CLOSE. A crossword puzzle.
text: Features reflect over the acrostic. The two images
text: resolve into one; the face itself is a puzzle.
scene_heading: 16 REVERSE ANGLE 16
text: EDWARD NYGMA, awkward, brilliant and feverishly anxious
text: stares up at the screen, TALKING to himself.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: We'll probably go to the house for
dialog: dinner. Yes. Yes. Maybe he'll throw
dialog: a little party in my honor.
text: Suddenly Edward BANGS his head against the desk-top.
text: Hard. A brief window on the inner Edward, all insecurity
text: and self loathing.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Idiot! Should have rented a tuxedo.
dialog: (suddenly calm)
dialog: Relax. I'm sure Wayne manor has
dialog: extra. After all, we're almost the
dialog: same size.
text: 17 The opposing wall is a shrine to Bruce Wayne: newspaper 17
text: headlines, a GQ cover, magazine photos.
text: 18 Approaching COMMOTION. 18
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh my God. It's him.
scene_heading: 19 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - BREAK AREA 19
text: Workers greet the boss. Bruce is friendly, welcoming,
text: Edward appears on the edge of the group.
text: Stickley spots Edward. A cloud crosses his face.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Well, Mr. Wayne, on to R&D?
text: Stickley rests his hand on Wayne's elbow. Begins to steer
text: him away. Not in time.
text: Edward steps forward. A man so uncomfortable, his very
text: skin seems to be a costume. He marches right up to Wayne,
text: takes his hand, fawning, the burning eyes of a sycophant.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Mr...?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Bruce Wayne. In the flesh.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (easy going)
dialog: Um...I'm pretty sure I'm Bruce
dialog: Wayne. And you are?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Nygma. Edward Nygma. You hired me.
dialog: Personally. Just like I tell
dialog: everyone.
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: Well, we've never actually met, but
dialog: your name was on the hire slip.
text: He still hasn't let go of Bruce's hand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm gonna need that hand back, Ed.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: What? Ah yes. Of course. I'm sorry.
dialog: It's just that...you're my idol.
dialog: (off Stickley)
dialog: And some people have been trying to
dialog: keep us apart.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Mr. Nygma, you'll forgive me for
dialog: being rude. But what exactly is on
dialog: your mind?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Precisely. What's on all our minds?
dialog: Brainwaves. The future of Wayne
dialog: Enterprises is Brainwaves!
dialog: It's hard to imagine anyone more awkward. The effect is
text: painful. Folks stare, mouths wide.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: (sotto voce)
dialog: I really do apologize, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: His project was terminated this
dialog: morning...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (ignoring Stickley)
dialog: Let me ask you something, Bruce.
dialog: What is man's greatest tool?
text: A few of the WOMEN SNICKER. For a second, Edward's face
text: twitches, a crack in the facade.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Man's greatest tool is...The mind.
text: 20 Edward gestures to his cubicle. A rat's nest cluttered 20
text: with components of his Rube Goldberg-like invention.
speaker_heading: 21 EDWARD 21
text: Voila. While holographically
dialog: enhancing any TV picture, my
dialog: invention connects directly to the
text: viewer's brain, puts the audience
dialog: inside the show. Think of the
dialog: entertainment problems we can solve.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: I can think of a couple problems
dialog: that need solving right here.
text: A few more folks CHUCKLE. Edward looks around. Another
text: ripple of anxiety, another quick recovery.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Why be brutalized by an uncaring
dialog: world? My RES Box will give Joe Q
text: Public a realm where he is king.
dialog: (sultry)
dialog: Not that someone like you would need
dialog: it. Someone so intelligent. Witty.
dialog: Charming. But for the lonely, the...
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Paranoid? The psychotic?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (didn't miss it)
dialog: ...The Box can change their lives.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Our stock coupons will spike.
text: Edward turns, actually CLAPS Stickley on the back.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Hell. Might even bring old Stickley
dialog: here a few extra bucks. Huh, Fred?
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Fred?
text: Bruce takes off his glasses, rubs his eyes in vague
text: disbelief, cleans the lenses.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Wayne Enterprises will spearhead an
dialog: entertainment revolution.
text: Edward removes his glasses, cleans them in exactly the
dialog: same manner as Bruce.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I just need a bit of additional
dialog: funding. For human trials. Let me
dialog: show you....
text: Bruce seems about to speak when suddenly -
scene_heading: 22 THE BATSIGNAL 22
text: beams bright against the night clouds over Gotham City.
speaker_heading: 23 BRUCE 23
dialog: (time to move)
dialog: Maybe some other time..
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I want you to know, we'll be full
dialog: partners in this, Bruce.
dialog: (waxing rhapsodic)
dialog: What talks we'll have, late into the
dialog: night. Now, I'm not used to business
dialog: travel, so go easy on me. As for
dialog: recognition, I'm sure after a time
dialog: I'll get used to it.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Look at us. Two of a kind.
text: Edward is suddenly aware of dozens of co-workers all
text: around him, SNICKERING and WHISPERING.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Bruce...?
text: Bruce's eyes dart again toward the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Call my secretary, she'll set
dialog: something up.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Factory looks great, folks. Keep up
dialog: the good work.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (desperate)
dialog: Wait. You can't go.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We'll talk some other -
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (sudden rage)
dialog: No. Don't leave me! My invention! I
dialog: need you!
text: Edward has grabbed Bruce's arm. The room goes dead quiet.
text: Bruce's eyes narrow. Then he dislodges gently.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm sorry, Edward. Just feels a bit
dialog: like mind manipulation. It raises
dialog: too many question marks.
text: Bruce heads off.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Alright everyone, back to work.
dialog: (to Edward)
dialog: We'll discuss this later.
text: Edward stares after Bruce.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You were supposed to understand.
text: HOLD on this tiny man, all alone in the labyrinthine
text: work-place, eyes darkening now with growing obsession.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll make you understand.
scene_heading: 24 INT. BRUCE WAYNE's PRIVATE OFFICE 24
text: Bruce ENTERS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Lock.
text: 25 THE DOOR - CLOSE. LOCKS. Bruce falls into a leather chair. 25
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Capsule.
text: 26 Suddenly the chair seat drops, fast, sliding into a 26
dialog: transport capsule.
scene_heading: 27 INT. TRANSPORT TUNNEL 27
text: The capsule shoots through the underground tunnel, lights
text: WHIPPING past at near super-sonic speed.
scene_heading: 28 INT. CAPSULE 28
text: Speed and time readouts appear on the windscreen beside
text: the craggy face of ALFRED PENNYWORTH.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred...
speaker_heading: 29 ALFRED 29
dialog: I saw the signal, is. All is ready.
scene_heading: 30 INT. BAT CAVE - COSTUME VAULT 30
text: Alfred watches the capsule arrive.
text: 31 QUICK CUTS of glove, boot, and cape being donned. 31
scene_heading: 32 INT. BATCAVE 32
text: FOLLOW Batman's feet as he steps up to the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I suppose I couldn't convince you to
dialog: take along a sandwich.
text: Batman jumps into the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to Alfred)
dialog: I'll get drive-thru.
dialog: (to the car)
dialog: Go...
text: 33 The car shoots a whitish-blue light from under it's 33
text: belly. Hub Caps and detailing glow as The Batmobile zooms
text: out of the cave.
scene_heading: 34 INT. CAVE ACCESS TUBE 34
text: The car SHOOTS through a series of underground arches.
text: The car picks up speed, the blue-white fusion drive going
text: blue, then purple, then red. The single bat wing splits
text: into two as the car becomes a stealth bullet.
scene_heading: 35 EXT. WAYNE ESTATE - NIGHT 35
text: The dark car WHIPS through a holograph of trees that
text: masks the entrance to the Batcave, SCREECHING onto...
scene_heading: 36 EXT. FOREST ROADS - NIGHT 36
text: The car speeds towards Gotham.
text: 37 ANGLE OUTSIDE THE WINDOW ON 37
text: The Batsignal, cutting the darkness.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
scene_heading: 38 INT. SECOND BANK OF GOTHAM - 22ND FLOOR - NIGHT 38
text: A worried THUG peers at the Batsignal out the skyscraper
text: window. Across a narrow abyss stands a skyscraper under
text: construction, all girders and scaffolding.
text: 39 In f.g., a spinning silver dollar flips up into frame, 39
text: blocking out the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: Bat should show any minute, Face.
text: A HAND catches the coin, flips it again.
speaker_heading: 40 WIDER 40
text: Witness the rakishly handsome profile of HARVEY TWO-FACE
text: DENT, the other side of his face hidden in shadow.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You. Sport. Any thoughts? Counting
dialog: on Batass to rescue you?
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
text: A SECURITY GUARD, laying on the floor, wrists and feet
text: bound, trembling with fear.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: _We_ sure are.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: ...You gonna kill me?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Might. Might not. Could say we're of
text: two minds on the subject.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: I got family. ...Please.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What say we flip for it?
text: Two-ace shoves the silver dollar under the Guard's nose.
text: One side shines in mint condition.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What could be fairer than the random
dialog: toss of an honest coin? Life...
text: The other side bears deep, disfiguring burns.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: ...or death.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Please. I swear I won't say noth-
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: The coin _wants_ to decide.
text: 41 Two-Face flips. The coin spins, gleaming, lands on the 41
text: floor only inches from the Guard's face.
text: 42 Two-Face STOMPS the coin. Winks at the sweating Guard. 42
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Exhilarating, isn't it? The
dialog: suspense? Sudden death or a new
dialog: lease on life? Really makes a man
dialog: live in the moment.
text: Two-Face removes his foot. Unblemished side up.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're in luck. You get to live to
text: whimper another day.
text: The Guard SOBS with relief. Harvey's Thugs GRUMBLE.
text: Two-Face folds his jacket into a pillow, places it under
text: the Guard's head, now the nicest crook in the world.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: That floor has got to be very hard.
dialog: Is that better?
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Uh, yeah. Thanks, Mr..uh...Face.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Just call us Harvey. Can we get you
dialog: a sandwich? A soft drink? Given all
dialog: the trouble we caused you, how about
dialog: we cut you in for a share of
dialog: tonight's haul?
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: Face! For cryin' out loud! You're
dialog: not gonna pay him--
text: Two-Face turns on Thug 2 with a vengeance, shooting out a
text: hand that pins the fellow's throat to the wall.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Did we ask your opinion? The coin
dialog: has rendered its verdict. This man
dialog: has a family to take care of. You
dialog: have a problem with that?
text: We now see for the first time the LEFT HALF OF HIS FACE:
text: hideously repulsive, an acid eaten mutilation of flesh.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: Oh no, Face. Anything you say.
scene_heading: 43 EXT. PAN-ASIA TOWN - STREET - NIGHT 43
text: Sweeping spots. Swat teams. Police wagons.
text: 44 COMMISIONER GORDON, 50s, a man who's seen enough pain 44
text: for a lifetime, stands in his trademark trenchcoat,
text: lighting a cigarette.
text: Beside him stands a beautiful, professionally dressed
text: young woman. DR. CHASE MERIDIAN.
scene_heading: 45 HIGH ABOVE 45
text: The Batmobile SCREECHES to a stop on a pedestrian bridge.
text: 46 THE BATSIGNAL is suddenly obscured, flows for a moment 46
text: into the shape of Batman's cape as the Dark Knight leaps
text: 47 down past the spotlight, lands face to face with Chase. 47
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Hot entrance.
text: Batman turns, all business as he speaks to Gordon.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Two-Face?
speaker_heading: GORDON
text: Two guards dead. He's holding the
dialog: third hostage. Didn't see this one
dialog: coming.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: We should have, though.
text: The men turn to face her.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: _Two_ million dollars waiting to be
dialog: transferred from the _Second_ Bank of
dialog: Gotham on the _22nd_ How could Harvey?
dialog: _Two_-Face resist?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: And you are?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Batman, I'd like you to meet--
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (offering her hand)
dialog: Chase Meridian
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I asked Dr. Meridian to come to
dialog: Gotham to consult on this case. She
dialog: specializes...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ...dual personalities. Abnormal
dialog: psychology. Washington's poster
dialog: child for the criminally insane. I
dialog: read your work.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm flattered. Not every girl makes
dialog: a super-hero's night table. You
dialog: might have some interesting insights
dialog: into Two-Face.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Why's that?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Let's just say I could write a hell
text: of a paper on a grown man who
text: dresses like a flying rodent.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Bats aren't rodents, Dr. Meridian.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I didn't know that. See? You _are_
dialog: interesting. And call me Chase. By
dialog: the way, do you have a first name? Or
dialog: do I just call you bats?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: May I remind you two we have a
text: psychopathic murderer on the loose
dialog: here?
text: A titanic BOOM rocks the night.
text: 48 SEARCHLIGHTS race up the skeletal skyscraper to REVEAL.. 48
text: A giant CRANE and WRECKING BALL. The wrecking ball
text: SMASHES again into the bank building.
scene_heading: 49 INT. BANK OF GOTHAM - NIGHT 49
text: The already crumbling wall behind Two Face EXPLODES. Two-
text: Face checks his watch, unfazed, as the giant wrecking
text: ball CRASHES into the room within inches of the villain.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Right on schedule.
text: Two-Face's men scramble to the hole, attach chains to...
scene_heading: 50 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 50
text: ...an even thicker chain dangling 30 stories from the
text: roof of the construction site.
text: FOLLOW THE CHAIN UP as it yanks tight, revealing...
text: A BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER already atop the construction
text: site, perched on steel beams. REVVING its mighty rotors.
text: 51 A giant winch aboard the Blackhawk starts to haul the 51
text: safe chain over pulleys up into a cargo hatch.
scene_heading: 52 INT. - SECOND BANK OF GOTHAM. 22ND FLOOR, NIGHT 52
text: Thug 1 stares out the window.
speaker_heading: THUG 1
dialog: The Bat's taking the bait! What now?
text: 53 Harvey flips the coin. 53
text: 54 FOLLOW THE COIN as Two-Face snatches it from mid-air, 54
text: slaps it on his wrist. Bad side up.
text: 55 ANGLE ON - Two-Face's left side. Scarred, gloating evil. 55
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: At last, The Bat dies!
text: The chains suddenly yank the safe towards the hole in the
text: wall. Thug 2 gestures to the Guard on the floor.
speaker_heading: THUG 2
dialog: What about him?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Kill him too.
text: Thug 2, grinning, draws a GUN from his waistband.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Wait! You said you'd let me go!
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Never heard of a double-cross?
text: 56 A DING from the elevators. 56
text: The Thugs and Harvey all whirl, machine guns coming up,
text: open FIRE, armor piercing bullets punching holes in the
text: metal doors, shredding anyone inside.
text: THE GUARD lays bound on the floor. Suddenly a clamp-ended
text: bat-cable drops from above. With a tiny CLICK, the smart-
text: clamp hooks onto the Guard's wrist bindings.
speaker_heading: 57 ELEVATORS 57
text: HARVEY AND THUGS empty magazines. Re-load.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Come on in, the water's fine.
text: All stand watching as the now perforated elevator doors
text: slide, jerking, open to reveal...an empty elevator.
text: The skylight overhead EXPLODES and, in a rain of glass,
text: Batman drops to the floor on a Batrope.
text: 58 THE GUARD is apparently attached to the Batrope's other 58
text: end because, as the Caped Crusader comes down, the Guard
text: shoots up, hoisted fast to the safe rooftop above.
speaker_heading: 59 FIRE DOORS 59
text: BLOW open. Two SWAT teams burst in, armed for bear.
speaker_heading: SWAT LEADER
dialog: Police! Freeze!
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Not the guest list we had in mind.
text: Boys, the party's over.
text: Two-Face drops a SMOKE GRENADE. Then he leaps directly
text: out the hole in the wall. His Thugs take off after him.
scene_heading: 60 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 60
text: The Thugs come leaping through the hole, using the now
text: rising safe as a springboard to close the windy gap, roll
text: to safety on the construction site next door. They
text: scatter, begin scaling various beams and girders.
scene_heading: 61 INT. BANK 61
text: Swat Teams race through the smoke in close pursuit, come
text: up short at the edge of the urban precipice. The safe has
text: risen too high, now, to serve as a springboard, so the
text: cops drop, begin FIRING across the gap. Suddenly...
text: A DARK WING explodes out of the smoke behind them, flying
text: across the abyss.
scene_heading: 62 INT. CONSTRUCTION SIGHT 62
text: A Thug fires at the figure hurling towards him. Batman
text: lands on the Thug's chest, smashing him to the floor.
text: Suddenly, from above, BULLETS CRACK off the girders
text: beside the Caped Crusader's head.
scene_heading: 63 REVERSE ANGLE 63
text: TWO-FACE glides upward, riding the wrecking ball as it
text: overtakes the safe, shooting down at Batman.
text: 64 BATMAN starts scaling the scaffolding after Two-Face. 64
text: He's climbing fast but Harvey has too great a lead.
text: 65 BATMAN - POV. A motorized gantry is carrying one of the 65
text: Thugs up to the roof.
text: 66 Batman FIRES a Batarang. The bat-shaped clamp bites into 66
text: the wooden base of the rising gantry.
text: He toggles the launcher into winch mode, is hoisted fast
text: towards the rising gantry above.
scene_heading: 67 ON THE GANTRY 67
text: The riding Thug leans down, sees the rising shadow, grabs
text: the Batrope in both hands and flips over the gantry.
scene_heading: 68 ON THE BATROPE 68
text: The Thug slides fast down to kicking range, draws back
text: his boot to dispatch Batman.
text: Batman hits a switch on his launcher, increasing the
text: winch speed, shooting him higher, faster. He grabs the
text: Thug's foot in his hand, shoves him up so his head CRACKS
text: against the bottom of the gantry. Batman swings the
text: unconscious Thug onto a hanging construction hook,
text: leaving him dangling in mid-air by his nose ring, hoists
dialog: himself up onto...
speaker_heading: 69 THE GANTRY 69
text: From the scaffolding above, a Thug drops to one end of
text: the gantry, nun-chucks spinning madly.
text: Behind Batman, another Thug drops INTO FRAME, drawing a
text: machine pistol.
text: Batman reaches forward, grabs the Thug's spinning nun-
text: chuck, stunning his face with the wooden sticks. In a
text: single move, Batman spins and lets the weapon fly into
text: the pistoled assailant, knocking him flat.
text: 70 BATMAN - POV. Two-Face has reached the chopper. 70
scene_heading: 71 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 71
text: Two-Face climbs into the chopper's cargo bay.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (to the pilot)
dialog: Let's fly.
scene_heading: 72 EXT. GANTRY - NIGHT 72
text: Batman sees the helicopter start to rise, pulling the
text: safe overhead along with it.
text: 73 Batman jumps, drops through the abyss between the two 73
text: buildings, landing on...
text: 74 A HIGH TENSION WIRE - CLOSE. The wire bends like a bow, 74
text: shooting Batman like an arrow straight into the air.
text: 75 Batman grabs the rising chain, slides down it's links so 75
text: he is standing atop the safe.
text: 76 He FIRES a Batarang into the bank wall, making an anchor, 76
text: attaches the Bat-cable to the hitch atop the safe.
scene_heading: 77 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 77
text: The chopper is straining against Batman's bank-embedded
text: tether. Two-Face looks down in fury.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: The man is taking his job
dialog: _much too seriously_.
scene_heading: 78 EXT. TOP OF SAFE - NIGHT 78
text: Batman palms a compartment on his utility belt and a
text: small delivery mechanism SNAPS a tiny acetylene torch
text: into his gloved hand.
text: A BLUE FLAME ignites. Batman starts to cut the chains.
scene_heading: 79 EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT 79
text: Batman's torch slices the last link. Batman reaches up
text: and grabs the winch chain, is jerked suddenly upward with
text: the now un-tethered chopper as...
speaker_heading: 80 THE SAFE 80
text: now freed, swings like a pendulum on it's anchor line,
text: arcing straight for the hole in the bank wall from which
dialog: it was originally drawn.
scene_heading: 81 INT. BANK BUILDING 81
text: The safe comes flying through the hole, sliding across the
text: floor and SLAMMING back into place before the bewildered
text: faces of the SWAT team.
scene_heading: 82 INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT 82
text: Two-Face stares out the side of the chopper.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: That was our money.
text: Two-Face grabs the controls from the pilot.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: He wants to play. Fine, let's play.
text: 83 Two-Face pulls back on the throttle, the chopper shooting 83
text: straight up into the sky like a rocket.
scene_heading: 84 EXT. GOTHAM SKY - NIGHT 84
text: Batman hangs from the chain, trailing the chopper, a wing
text: of shadowy quicksilver disappearing into the night.
scene_heading: 85 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING 85
text: Gotham's Times Square. Tall. Narrow. The crawl of bumper-
text: to-bumper traffic. Glutted with neon signs and giant
text: animated billboards.
text: 86 The helicopter ROARS into view. BATMAN hangs on for dear 86
text: life as the city rushes past.
text: 87 A SERIES OF SHOTS as street folks look up in wonder. 87
text: 88 SIGN - CLOSE. For Ginsu Knives. A couple of giant hands 88
text: make fast work of a steak on a smoking barbecue.
text: The chopper swings Batman _through_ the ad, falling blades
text: just missing him, dragging him through the thick smoke.
text: The chopper swings across the square, heading for...
text: 89 ANOTHER SIGN - CLOSE. This time a tremendous set of 89
text: clacking teeth turn yellow to white each time the cap
text: lifts off of a giant tube of toothpaste.
text: 90 The chopper barrels straight for the opening mouth. 90
text: At the last moment the chopper banks, whipping the
text: dangling Batman inside the mouth.
text: 91 The mouth closes on the Caped Crusader. 91
text: 92 The chopper pulls away, the chain pulling like floss 92
text: through the closed teeth.
scene_heading: 93 INT. MOUTH 93
text: Batman, still clutching the chain, is flying towards the
text: barricade of closed teeth.
scene_heading: 94 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - MOUTH SIGN 94
text: Batman SMASHES through the two front teeth.
text: 95 BATMAN - CLOSE. His face suddenly bathed in an ever 95
text: brightening yellow glow.
scene_heading: 96 INT. CHOPPER 96
scene_heading: TWO-FACE'S POV - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
text: Dead ahead, another sign. This one is essentially a giant
text: neon sun, the Wayne Tech logo burning bright yellows and
text: reds over the message Solar: The Power of the Future.
text: 97 Harvey GUNS the chopper's engines. 97
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Face!!!
scene_heading: 98 EXT. GOTHAM SKY 98
text: The chopper BLOWS straight through the nova, neon
text: EXPLODING like stars in all directions.
scene_heading: 99 INT. HELICOPTER 99
text: As the Pilot, in the b.g. regains control of the chopper,
text: Harvey walks to the hold, looks down through the hatch at
text: the dangling chain below. No Batman.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ah, to finally be rid of that pointy
text: eared, steroid eating, rubber
dialog: suited, cross dressing, night rat...
scene_heading: 100 THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD 100
text: a familiar blue cape falls down over the plexi-glass.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: Uh...boss....
text: Harvey spins, draws his machine pistol.
speaker_heading: PILOT
dialog: No!
text: Too late. Harvey SPRAYS wildly, blowing holes in the
dialog: windshield and Pilot as well.
scene_heading: 101 EXT. HELICOPTER 101
text: The cape slips off the windscreen
scene_heading: 102 INT. HELICOPTER 102
text: The chopper dives. Two-Face staggers towards the pilot's
text: chair. He rests free the corpse, regains control.
text: A FIST SMASHES through the side window into Harvey's jaw.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Harvey, you need help. Give it up.
scene_heading: 103 EXT. HELICOPTER 103
text: Batman stands on one of the struts, begins trying to
text: climb into the open side of the speeding bird.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Words of wisdom from our ex-friend?
text: Harvey SLAMS Batman's face with his foot. He goes down.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Mano a Mano a Bato.
text: Batman pulls himself back up. Grabs Harvey's foot. Flips
text: him to the floor. Drags him half way out of the bird.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Surrender.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ever been to Arkham, Batman? You'd
dialog: feel right at home. You took a year
dialog: of my life. So I'm here to pay you
dialog: back. There's only one way out of
dialog: this waltz. One of us dies.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I won't kill you, Harvey.
text: Batman gets Harvey by the throat.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Batman doesn't kill? Bullshit.
dialog: (epiphinous)
dialog: You're a killer too.
text: Somehow Harvey's words seem to shake Batman a beat. It's
dialog: all the distraction Harvey needs. He SMASHES Batman
text: across the face.
text: Batman slips, falls out of sight.
text: 104 WINDSHIELD - CLOSE. Lady Gotham is coming up fast. 104
scene_heading: 105 EXT. HELICOPTER 105
text: Batman hangs by one hand from the support strut, the bird
text: hurling towards the giant statue.
scene_heading: 106 INT. HELICOPTER 106
text: Harvey locks "The Club" onto the controls, fixing the
text: chopper on it's deadly course.
text: 107 Batman hoists himself into the chopper through the open 107
text: side in time to see Harvey standing over the cargo hatch.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Goodbye old pal.
text: With that Harvey leaps through the cargo hatch.
text: 108 Batman stares frozen in disbelief as Two-Face plummets to 108
text: the dark water below.
text: 109 Then a sudden flurry of expanding color caught in Lady 109
text: Gotham's lighthouse beam, and a parachute opens over Two-
text: Face, unfolding into a giant Yin-Yang.
text: 110 BATMAN - POV - The windshield SHATTERS into the statue. 110
scene_heading: 111 EXT. HELICOPTER - LADY GOTHAM - NIGHT 111
text: The helicopter EXPLODES into the left side of Lady
text: Gotham's face. A tremendous fireball splits the night.
scene_heading: 112 EXT. GOTHAM SKY - NIGHT 112
text: Batman is falling. Still. Eyes closed. Maybe dead.
speaker_heading: FLASHES OF
text: 113 (OVER) A SCREAM. Two SHOTS. A pair of roses hit pavement. 113
text: 114 A BOY runs through a storm, a book clutched in his hands. 114
text: 115 A FALL down a narrow stone chute, into a cave. 115
text: 116 A BAT, huge, evil, SCREECHING. 116
scene_heading: TWO-FACE'S WORDS (OVER) - "YOU'RE A KILLER TOO."
scene_heading: 117 BATMAN FALLING - CLOSE 117
text: Batman plummets towards the water. His eyes open.
scene_heading: 118 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR (CONTINUOUS) 118
text: Batman SPLASHES into the harbor. Dark. Still.
text: Then, a familiar cowl breaks the surface, GASPING for
text: breath. Batman stares up at the sky.
speaker_heading: 119 PAN UP 119
text: Lady Gotham's one beautiful face now burns the night.
scene_heading: 120 INT. WAYNE ENTERPRISES - NIGHT 120
text: Dark, save the light from a single cubicle.
scene_heading: 121 INT. EDWARD'S WORK STATION - NIGHT 121
text: Edward sits hunched over his desk, working on his
text: invention. Sweat beads his brow, lips MUMBLING furiously.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (obsessive repetition)
dialog: Too many questions. Too many
dialog: questions.
text: Edward glances up at the picture of Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I'll show you it works.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY (O.S.)
dialog: What the hell is going on here?
text: Stickley stands before Edward's cubicle. Not happy.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Your project is terminated. I'm
dialog: calling security.
text: Stickley turns to go. Mistake. Edward CRACKS Stickley on
text: the head with a coffee pot. Down he goes.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Caffine'll kill you.
scene_heading: 122 INT. EDWARD'S CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER 122
text: Stickley awakens to find himself strapped in a swivel
text: chair. Edward is placing an elaborate computerized
text: headband over Stickley's head. (OVER) a small TV hooked
text: into Edward's contraption runs a fishing show.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: This won't hurt a bit.
dialog: (musing)
dialog: At least I don't think it will.
text: Edward reaches for a small transceiver fused to the TV.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: Goddamnit, you press that button
dialog: and-
text: 123 Too late. A green beam explodes from the TV screen, 123
text: engulfing Stickley.
text: 124 IN THE BEAM - a small holographic representation of the 124
text: fisherman reeling in a prize bass.
scene_heading: 125 STICKLEY - POV - As far as Fred is concerned he's on the 125
text: shore, the fisherman's catch flapping in his face.
text: 126 The TV signals begin to waver and tremble. 126
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Loosing resolution. More power.
text: He increases the power toggle. BACKFIRE. A sudden white
text: light shoots back into the TV and up, surrounding Ed.
text: STICKLEY - CLOSE. His eyes dull, glaze over.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. The effect on him seems to be quite the
text: opposite. Invigorating, sexual.
text: THE BEAM-FLARES. A tiny nova. Overload. Both men SCREAM.
text: All light vanishes.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. His face buried in his hands.
text: Edward peers up from his hands.
dialog: Look into his eyes. One thing is sure. Edward Nygma has
text: gone power mad, totally insane.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (game show host)
dialog: Fred Stickley. Come on down. You're
dialog: the next contestant on I Want Your
dialog: Brain.
dialog: (Wayne-like)
dialog: Nygma your machine has unexpected
text: side effects. A feed back loop has
dialog: caused your brain to absorb
dialog: Stickley's neural energy.
dialog: (hyper)
dialog: Stickley, I've had a break-
dialog: through! And a breakdown? Maybe.
dialog: Nevertheless. I'm smarter. Hell, I'm
dialog: a genius. More than a genius.
dialog: Several geniuses. Genae. Genie.
text: Ed rises, BABBLES a dazed Fred's lips with his finger.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (short order cook)
dialog: Yo. Charlie. Gimmie an order of
dialog: brain deep-fry. Extra well done.
dialog: Hold the neurons.
dialog: (a scientist)
dialog: Patient exhibits symptoms of psycho
dialog: neural overload. Notation: obviously
dialog: higher settings can be dangerous to
dialog: the subject.
dialog: (pacing)
dialog: Riddle me this, Fred. What is
dialog: everything to someone and nothing to
dialog: everyone else? Your mind of course.
text: And now mine pumps with the power of
dialog: yours.
dialog: (urban)
dialog: New from Brain-bok. Da pump. Think
dialog: faster. Reason higher. Out-cog-nate
dialog: every homey on the court of life. Da
dialog: pump. Yeah.
dialog: (Shakespearian)
dialog: Ho! Mark. I sense an odd penchant
dialog: for the anagramatic. The acrostic.
dialog: The crypto-graphic. What doth this
dialog: bode? Answer me Marcutio, you little
dialog: runt.
dialog: (gourmet)
dialog: Fred, I must confess you were a
dialog: wonderful appetizer. Simply divine.
dialog: But now I yearn for a meal of
text: substance. The main course. A wide
dialog: and varied palette. Ah, to taste the
text: mind of a hero. A nobleman. A poet.
dialog: (Groucho)
dialog: A chick in a short skirt wouldn't be
dialog: so bad either.
speaker_heading: STICKLEY
dialog: ...Fired...your fired...your fired.
dialog: You understand?! Fired!!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I don't think so.
text: Edward savagely sends Stickley careening across the slick
text: floor still strapped to the swivel chair.
text: 127 Stickley heads straight for the huge round window. 127
text: 128 Edward seems like he has regrets as he dashes after 128
dialog: Stickley. The chair...
text: 129 SMASHES THROUGH THE ROUND WINDOW 129
text: It teeters on the edge of the building, dam and RUSHING
text: water below. Stickley is being held on the precipice by
text: the long wire attached to his headband. It is really only
dialog: this that Edward came to save.
speaker_heading: 130 EDWARD 130
dialog: Fred. Babe. _You_ are fired. Or should
dialog: I say Terminated!
text: He yanks the invention from Stickley's head and he
text: crashes below to certain death. Ed races back to...
speaker_heading: 131 EDWARD'S CUBICLE 131
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Question marks, Mr. Wayne?
text: He stands staring at the picture of Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My work raises too many question
dialog: marks?
text: In a frenzy, Edward begins tearing up the magazines lying
text: on his desk, ripping out individual words, pasting them
text: quickly onto a blank piece of paper.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Two years. 3.5762 percent of my
dialog: estimated lifespan toiling for your
dialog: greater glory and profit.
text: He SMASHES the framed GQ cover of Bruce on the floor.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Well, let me ask you some questions,
dialog: Mr. Smarter Than Thou. Why are you
dialog: so debonair? Successful? Richer than
dialog: God? Why should you have it all and
dialog: not me? Yes, you're right, there are
dialog: too many questions, Bruce Wayne.
text: Edward STOMPS on the picture, pulverizing the glass.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Like why hasn't anybody put you in
dialog: your place? And it's time you came
dialog: up with some answers. Starting right
dialog: now!
scene_heading: A SERIES OF IMAGES-
text: 132 (OVER) A SCREAM. SHOTS. Roses fall to the pavement. 132
text: 133 A YOUNG BOY stands staring into a parlor where two 133
text: coffins rest. Thomas and Martha Wayne. Dead leaves whip
text: through the hallway.
text: 134 SMALL HANDS touch a leather bound book. Suddenly the 134
text: pages are splattered with blood. Wind blows out two
text: flickering candles.
text: 135 THE BOY runs through a dark, stormy night, the book 135
text: clutched in his hands. He slips. A sinkhole.
text: 136 A FALL down a narrow chute. The boy lands in a dark cave. 136
text: 137 A GIANT MONARCH BAT, fangs bared, SCREECHES towards us. 137
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE (V.O.)
dialog: You're a killer too.
scene_heading: 138 INT. WAYNE MANOR - BRUCE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 138
text: In his bed, Bruce wakes, trying to blink away the images.
text: Alfred draws the curtains, welcoming rich autumn sun.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The dreams again, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I think they're getting worse.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: It's a wonder you sleep at all.
text: As Bruce sits up, Alfred notices a fresh set of bruises.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What a marvelous shade of purple.
text: Bruce shoots him a look.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Really, sir, if you insist on trying
dialog: to get yourself killed each night.
text: Alfred picks up Bruce's carelessly-tossed Batsuit from
text: the floor. Ripped, dented, punctured.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: ...Would it be a terrible imposition
dialog: to ask you to take better care of
dialog: your equipment?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Then you'd have nothing to complain
dialog: about.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Hardly a worry, sir.
text: Alfred brings a robe, holds it out for Bruce.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Commissioner Gordon phoned. There's
dialog: been an accident at Wayne
dialog: Enterprises.
scene_heading: 139 INT. - WAYNE ENTERPRISES - MORNING 139
text: As the window is replaced in b.g., Edward Nygma stands
text: SOBBING before the head of personnel. With augmented
dialog: brain power apparently comes augmented acting talent.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (inconsolable)
dialog: Why? Oh, why? I can't believe it.
dialog: Two years. Working in the same
dialog: office. Shoulder to shoulder, cheek
dialog: to cheek, ---we're talking face, by
dialog: the way---and then this.
dialog: (handing her a note)
dialog: I found this in my cubicle. You'll
dialog: find the handwriting matches his
dialog: exactly as does sentence structure
dialog: and spelling.
dialog: (suddenly sobbing again)
dialog: I couldn't possibly continue on
dialog: here. The memories. I'll just get my
dialog: things.
speaker_heading: 140 ANOTHER ANGLE 140
text: Edward slips out a side door, quickly avoiding Bruce and
text: Gordon as they walk towards Bruce's office.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: We've questioned everyone who worked
text: on the floor. Computer records show
dialog: no one going in or out after
dialog: Stickley.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Computer records can be forged.
dialog: I'll have my people pull up --
text: A cop hands Gordon the forged note.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Suicide. With all due respect, leave
dialog: the police work to us. We'll be in
dialog: touch.
text: As the Commissioner exits, Bruce heads into his office,
text: followed by his secretary, MARGARET.
scene_heading: 141 INT. BRUCE'S OFFICE (CONTINUOUS) 141
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: The society matrons of Gotham have
dialog: called a record thirty-two times.
dialog: Not to mention the press. I think
dialog: that if they don't know soon who you
dialog: plan to take to the charity circus,
dialog: the world will most surely come to
dialog: an end.
text: Bruce notices an envelope on his desk.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What's this?
speaker_heading: MARGARET
dialog: I don't know. I didn't see anyone...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No postmark. No stamp.
text: Bruce opens the envelope.
text: 142 LETTER - CLOSE. A photo of Bruce. Below: letters cut from 142
dialog: newspapers and magazines read:
speaker_heading: (RIDDLE#1) (to be written)
dialog: signed -The Riddler
text: 143 Bruce raises an eyebrow. 143
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The Riddler? Why can't anyone in
dialog: this town have a normal name?
text: Phone RINGS. Bruce hits a switch and a desk video-phone
text: lights into life. Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Channel 12, sir.
text: Bruce presses a button and Alfred's image shrinks to a
text: small box in the corner, superimposed atop a TV picture.
scene_heading: 144 ON SCREEN - 144
text: A talk show in progress. A radiant black host: VONDELLE
text: MILLIONS talks to a panel of experts.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: --joined us, we're talking about the
dialog: mutilation of Lady Gotham, caused
dialog: late last night by Batman-
speaker_heading: 145 BRUCE 145
dialog: _Excuse_ me?!
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: -- will take up to nine months to
dialog: repair. Today's topic: Batman-crime-
dialog: fighter or criminal?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: How 'bout Two-Face? Anyone here
dialog: heard of him?
text: The shot WIDENS to reveal the panel.
scene_heading: 146 ON SCREEN - Our first expert: DR. JANISLAUS ROYCE. 146
speaker_heading: ROYCE
dialog: Batman is a major cause of crime in
dialog: Gotham. So-called super-villains
dialog: seek him out hoping to prove
dialog: themselves in violent conflict.
dialog: Batman does not deter crime, he
dialog: invites it.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: I'm sure our audience objects to
dialog: your gender bias. Batperson.
text: The second expert PIPES in, DR. DAVID AIMS.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: What is the Dark Knight's credo?
dialog: Batman does not kill? What of those
dialog: slain during his fight with Jack
dialog: Napier aka Joker? Or in his
dialog: Christmas conflict with the orphan
dialog: Cobblepot? Batman belongs behind
dialog: bars, not his morally disadvantaged
dialog: victims.
speaker_heading: CHASE (O.S.)
dialog: Bull (bleep)!
speaker_heading: 147 WIDER 147
text: Chase sits at the end of the panel.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Which part of the word didn't you
dialog: understand?
text: 148 Watching, Bruce sits a little straighter, more hopeful. 148
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I could like this woman.
speaker_heading: 149 CHASE 149
dialog: Batman is a _reaction_ to the crime in
dialog: this city, not a creator of it!
dialog: Without him many more would be dead.
dialog: Batman is a true hero...
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Hey, Doc, got the hots for Batman?
text: HOOTS and HOLLERS from the audience.
scene_heading: CHASE - CLOSE. Busted.
text: 150 On screen, a graphic: BATMAN: CRIMEFIGHTER OR CRIMINAL? 150
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: What do you think? Call us at...
text: A HAND reaches up and SNAPS off the TV. The screen goes
text: black to reveal a reflection in the glass: Two-Face.
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
scene_heading: INT. TWO-FACE'S HIDEOUT - DAY
text: Two-Face turns away, disgusted.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Batman, Batman, Batman. God, we want
dialog: that man's blood on our hands.
speaker_heading: 151 WIDER 151
text: LEATHER sits to one side of Harvey. Ruby lipstick, tight
text: leather outfit, a choker o spikes, razor blade earrings,
text: stroking a muzzled black doberman.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Oh you are most obscene, my
text: frightful grotesque.
text: Another set of arms entwine Two-Face.
text: LACE, a submissive blonde in Victoria's Secret's lacy
text: best nuzzles his good side, pets a white kitten.
speaker_heading: LACE
dialog: Don't listen to her. You're every
dialog: girl's dream.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Waste Dorothy and Toto here, you and
dialog: me can get down to business.
text: Harvey SLAPS Leather, hard.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: Harder, baby. Hit me again.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: LEATHER
dialog: (hotter still)
dialog: Sadist.
text: He turns now to Lace, caresses her face gently.
scene_heading: WIDEN TO REVEAL
text: Two-Face's hideaway, divided straight down the middle.
text: Lace's half is all light and order. Leather's domain
text: looks like an S&M club.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Too many bats to fry to think about
dialog: fun. We wanna take him apart limb by
text: hyper-extended limb. Feel his bones
dialog: crunch in our hands. Beat him until
dialog: he's as black and blue as that
text: ridiculous rubber suit.
text: Without thinking, Harvey steps over the Laceland. His
text: demeanor instantly changes, now more reasoned and calm.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: On the other hand, perhaps something
text: slow, a delicious incursion of
text: despair, a campaign to shatter his
text: psyche and bring him crumbling to
text: his knees.
text: He wanders back across to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Hell. Why wait? Rupture his organs.
text: Shatter his spine. Still have time
dialog: for a late dinner.
text: Back in Laceland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: But simple murder? It's just too
dialog: damn simple. Besides, it's been
dialog: done. No. We need a plan.
text: Back to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Yes. Something senseless, brutal,
text: savage, violent.
dialog: Back to Laceland, stopping to add...
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Yet witty.
scene_heading: 152 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT 152
text: Edward peddles a bicycle down a service road towards
text: Wayne Manor, an envelope jutting from his shirt pocket.
scene_heading: 153 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT 153
text: Alfred stands over a cage of bats. A hand-held scanner
dialog: producing distance readings.
text: Bruce sits before his Master Console.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How's the sonar coming, Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: A few hitches sir, but I'm confident
dialog: we'll have a prototype in no time.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It'll never work.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I believe you said the same thing
dialog: about the Batmobile.
text: (OVER) a doorbell RINGS. Alfred disappears upstairs.
scene_heading: 154 BRUCE - OVER THE SHOULDER 154
text: Bruce works a keyboard, manipulating the images on
dialog: various screens.
text: 155 SCREEN ONE - Replays the CNN story on Two-Face 155
text: 156 SCREEN TWO - Replays the Vondelle Williams show. 156
scene_heading: 157 SCREEN THREE - Runs news footage of Chase. 157
text: 158 As Alfred returns, Bruce splits the Chase screen, a list 158
text: of psychiatric texts scrolling beside her portrait.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Scholarly research?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She has an excellent mind.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: If I misinterpreted your interest in
dialog: the lady, I humbly apologize--
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I wonder if she'd go out with me.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Apology hastily retracted.
text: Bruce freezes the image of Vondelle Williams over the
dialog: familiar graphic: Batman: Crimefighter or Criminal?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They don't understand. They think I
dialog: became Batman to fight crime.
text: Bruce leans back, closes his eyes, his past never far.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Do you remember the night I fell
text: into that cave and the bat chased
dialog: me?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Your parents' wake. Rain fell like
dialog: tears.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...The night Batman was born.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: What was I doing in the fields that
dialog: night, Alfred? What sent me running
dialog: out into that storm? I keep dreaming
dialog: about it but I just can't remember.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I don't know, sir. Your dear
text: parents. Suddenly gone. So much
dialog: loss...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I remember the bat, though. His
dialog: scream. Those eyes. i was sure the
dialog: fear would kill me.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: In time I came to believe that if I
dialog: became a monster, that if I was
dialog: feared, I wouldn't be scared
dialog: anymore. I was wrong.
dialog: (off the screen)
dialog: They think I became Batman to fight
dialog: crime. I became Batman to fight the
dialog: fear. And instead I became the fear.
text: Alfred hands him an envelope.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps it's time you paid a bit
dialog: more attention to Bruce Wayne. There
dialog: was no one at the door, just this.
text: Within, (RIDDLE #2). His expression darkens.
scene_heading: 159 EXT. UGLY TENEMENT - BAD NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 159
scene_heading: (OVER) SOUNDS OF POUNDING
scene_heading: 160 INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE EDWARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 160
scene_heading: The source of the POUNDING -- MRS. LUCERTOLA, Ed's
text: middle-aged, no-bullshit landlady.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Ya wanna cough up your rent, or do I
dialog: post an eviction notice?
text: Locks TURN. The door opens a crack. Edward peeks out.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Mrs. Lucertola. What a surprise.
dialog: Come in. I was just sitting down to
dialog: write the check.
scene_heading: 161 INT. EDWARD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 161
text: Mrs. Lucertola barges inside -- then stops, aghast.
speaker_heading: HER POV-
dialog: Five people might live here. Sports magazines. Stock
text: market tickers. Half completed paintings and sculptures.
text: Blueprints. In the corner an old circus booth containing
text: a manikin of the green-clad, can wielding Guesser.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: What is it exactly that you do, Mr.
dialog: Nygma?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: My dear Ms. Lucertola. Italian,
dialog: isn't it? For lizard. How fitting. I
dialog: think the question better asked:
dialog: what is it that I don't do?
text: Ed guides Mrs. Lucertola to a sofa before the TV.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Most recently I have devised a way
dialog: to change the destiny of mankind and
dialog: the world as we know it, all in my
dialog: favor of course.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: The rent Nygma!!!
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Might I persuade you to take a seat
dialog: on this couch? To indulge me in a
dialog: little experiment?
text: He shoves her down.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Hey, I got no time for-
text: Edward clamps a new, streamlined headband on her head.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Showtime.
text: He clicks on the TV. An evening soap.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: My favorite story.
text: Atop the TV rests a small box. The next generation of his
dialog: Remote Encephalographic Stimulator.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Yes. TV. Balm to the minds of the
dialog: masses. The great deadener. If only
dialog: it were more lively. But wait. I can
dialog: help.
text: He hits a switch on the Box and the familiar beam engulfs
text: his landlady, the holographic image of the screen's
text: kissing couple now hovering in mid-air before her.
scene_heading: MRS. LUCERTOLA
dialog: Oh my lord.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Not quite. But I'm getting there.
scene_heading: 162 MRS. LUCERTOLA - POV - She might as well be sitting on the 162
text: foot of the bed as the two lovers' embrace heats up.
text: Edward waves his hand in front of her eyes. Nothing. The
text: same dazed expression that Stickley wore.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Now this is much better. No pain.
dialog: Just a little holographic TV to keep
dialog: your mind off the fact...
text: Edward PLANTS an ELECTRODE on his forehead.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: ...That I'm taking your mind.
dialog: (professional)
dialog: Not your thoughts, mind you. Just
dialog: your neural energy, simply sucking
dialog: some IQ points as it were.
text: A GREEN-BLUE aura forms around Edward's head.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (announcer)
text: His intelligence jumps. Ms. Lizard
text: don't know it. The crowd goes wild.
dialog: (CEO)
dialog: Boys, I want one of these babies in
dialog: every home.
dialog: (Clinton)
dialog: It's the new information super
dialog: highway and, pay attention now kids.
dialog: I'm the on ramp.
dialog: (ad-man)
dialog: From their brains to the TV to my
dialog: brain, with no commercial
dialog: interruptions!
dialog: (announcer)
dialog: There are seven million brains in
dialog: the Naked City...
dialog: (menacing)
dialog: ...and they're all mine!
scene_heading: 163 EXT. MUNICIPAL POLICE COMPLEX - DAY 163
text: Gothic. Active. Bruce enters the complex.
scene_heading: 164 INT. POLICE COMPLEX - CHASE'S OFFICE 164
text: Comfortable. Well appointed. Degrees on the walls.
text: Chase opens her door to Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Mr. Wayne. Chase Meridian.
text: The sparks he felt from her as Batman don't fly.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: How can I help you, Mr. Wayne?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Somebody's been sending me love
dialog: letters. Commissioner Gordon thought
dialog: you might give me your expert
dialog: opinion.
text: Chase spread the `Riddler' letters before her. Bruce
text: TAPS his fingers absentmindedly as he watches her read.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Psychiatrists make you nervous?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Just ones this beautiful.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: The infamous Wayne charm. Does it
dialog: ever shut off?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: On occasion. Usually at night.
text: Bruce stops tapping, examines books on aberrant behavior.
text: The Dark Side. Turns a tiny wicker doll over in his hand.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Still play with dolls, Doctor?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: She's a Malaysian dream warden. She
dialog: stands sentry while you sleep and
dialog: calms your dreams.
dialog: (off Bruce's expressions)
dialog: Need one?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Me? No. Only things that need
dialog: calming in my dreams are the
dialog: Rockettes.
text: Chase holds his eyes a beat. Not buying. But she lets it
text: go, looks back over the letters.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: My opinion. This letter writer is a
dialog: total wacko.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wacko? That a technical term?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Patient apparently suffers from
dialog: acute obsessional syndrome with
dialog: potential homicidal styles. Work
dialog: better for you?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: So what you're saying, this guy's a
dialog: total wacko, right?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (a slight smile)
dialog: Exactly.
text: He notices batman research on her desk. Spots a framed
text: print hanging on the wall. A bat.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You have a thing for bats?
text: Chase follows his gaze.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: That's a rorschach, Mr. Wayne.
dialog: People see what they want to.
text: Bruce looks back up. In fact, just an ink blot. Only he
text: saw a bat within it's bleeding lines.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I think the question would be, do
dialog: you have a thing for bats?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: So, this Riddler, he's dangerous?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What do you know about obsession?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not much.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Obsession is born of fear. Recall a
dialog: moment of great terror in your life.
dialog: Say you associate that moment
dialog: with...
dialog: (random)
text: ...a bat. The bat's image becomes a
dialog: cancer of the mind, grows more real
dialog: than your daily life. Can you
dialog: imagine something like that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's a stretch but I'll manage.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: The letter writer is obsessed with
dialog: you. His only escape may be...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: To kill me.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You understand obsession better than
dialog: you let on.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No insights here, doc. Just trying
dialog: to get comfortable on your couch.
dialog: (checking his watch)
dialog: Oops. Times up.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: That's usually my line.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Look, I'd love to keep chatting-
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Would you? I'm not so sure.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: But I'm going to have to get you out
dialog: of those clothes.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: And into a black dress.
text: Bruce throws her startled expression his best smile.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Tell me, Doctor, do you like the
dialog: circus?
text: Despite herself, Chase smiles back.
scene_heading: 165 A SIGN - CLOSE - Gotham Hospital Charity Circus.
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: 166 EXT. HIPPODROME - NIGHT 166
text: Immense. On the lapping edge of Gotham Harbor.
text: Searchlights sweep the sky. FLAGS flutter on the
text: Hippodrome's oval roof, Limos spill Gotham's finest. The
dialog: night of the season.
scene_heading: 167 INT. CENTER RING 167
text: THE FLYING GRAYSONS -- Mother, Father, and two sons all
text: wearing colorful red and green outfits with yellow cape-
text: -- race out to greet the crowd. They discard their capes,
text: cartwheel to four guywires.
speaker_heading: RINGMASTER
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen. Seventy feet
text: above the ground, performing feats
dialog: of aerial skill without a net, the
dialog: Flying Graysons!
text: The lights dim. Spots follow each Grayson as hoist cables
text: whisk them up to the trapezes and high wire.
scene_heading: 168 ON THE TRAPEZE 168
text: Dad and Chris Grayson hang by their knees, upside down on
text: opposite trapezes.
text: 169 Mom jumps to Chris' hands, hangs in mid-air. Chris swings 169
text: back and forth, building momentum, then sends her to Dad
text: in a poetic double somersault.
speaker_heading: 170 BELOW 170
text: The Hippodrome is packed solid.
speaker_heading: 171 VIP SECTION 171
text: Bruce and Chase in evening finery take their seats amidst
text: a barrage of flashing photographers. The Gotham Society
text: matrons crowd for a photo op.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (off the flashes)
dialog: I'm surprised you aren't blind by
dialog: now.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (as if he were)
dialog: I'm sorry. Who are you?
text: Chase smiles. The Press and Matrons disappear.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Now we can just sit back and watch
dialog: the show like normal folks.
speaker_heading: RINGMASTER (OVER)
dialog: Tonight's benefit has raised
dialog: $375,000 for Gotham Children's
dialog: Hospital. Let's thank our largest
dialog: single donor: Bruce Wayne.
text: SPOTLIGHT finds Bruce and Chase. WILD APPLAUSE.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (through her smile)
dialog: Like normal folks.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (deadpan)
dialog: What? This isn't normal?
speaker_heading: 172 RINGMASTER 172
dialog: And now Richard, the youngest Flying
dialog: Grayson, will perform The _Quadruple_
dialog: Flying Somersault!
text: 173 DICK GRAYSON, handsome, only happy when he is in flight, 173
text: jumps to his father's hands, hangs in air.
text: 174 DICK'S POV - The world flips, dizzying, four times. 174
text: 175 Chris catches Dick's hands. Shaky. One hand slips free. 175
text: The Crowd GASPS. Dick dangles for an instant.
text: 176 Chris hoists Dick to safety. An uproarious OVATION! 176
text: 177 CHASE watches Bruce. He's riveted, eyes like a child's. 177
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That kid is amazing.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I don't get you Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Me? I'm easy. Especially after a
text: couple of martinis.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: The glib, cavalier routine, it
dialog: really is an act, isn't it?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't believe it. I'm just skin
dialog: deep.
text: But he holds her eyes and in the smile that passes
text: between them, sweet electricity. Maybe something more.
text: 178 THE RINGMASTER stands watching the Graysons feats of 178
text: aerial wonder. Something catches his eye.
text: 179 A GLOVED HAND extends through the curtain leading 179
text: backstage, beckons him with a single finger.
text: 180 THE RINGMASTER - CLOSE. Puzzled. Steps out of the ring. 180
scene_heading: 181 BACK TO BRUCE AND CHASE 181
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Look, I'm rock climbing Sunday. How
dialog: about coming along?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Bruce, much to my surprise, you seem
dialog: like a really great guy...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: But...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Well, I met someone...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Fast work. You just moved here.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You could say he kind of dropped out
dialog: of the sky and bang-. I think he
dialog: felt it too.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He sure did.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (awkward)
dialog: I said I'm sure he did.
text: Bruce looks towards...
speaker_heading: 182 CENTER RING 182
text: A TINY CAR, horn HONKING away, ROARS into the middle ring
text: and begins dislodging clowns, all tumbling out of the
text: cars and over each other.
text: 183 A new Ringmaster steps into the arena. Two-Face. 183
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen, and I do use
dialog: the term loosely, your attentions
dialog: please. Tonight, a new act for your
dialog: amusement. We call it Massacre Under
dialog: the Big Top.
text: 184 His thugs slip out of their clown costumes and seal every 184
dialog: exit.
text: 185 They pull machine guns and start SHOOTING over the 185
text: audience's heads. PANIC. SCREAMS.
speaker_heading: 186 TWO-FACE 186
dialog: People, people. Show some grace
text: under pressure. A little decorum,
dialog: please.
dialog: (into his mike)
dialog: _SHUT UP_!!!
text: 187 More machine gun BURSTS as Thugs move into sentry 187
text: positions at each section of bleachers. Folks quiet.
speaker_heading: 188 TWO-FACE 188
dialog: If we may direct your attention...
text: 189/90 A Thug trains a spot on a crate hung in the rafters. 189/90
speaker_heading: 191 TWO-FACE 191
dialog: Inside that wooden box: two hundred
text: sticks of TNT.
dialog: (showing a box)
text: In our hand: a radio detonator.
text: Two-Face presses a button.
scene_heading: 192 DETONATOR - CLOSE. A digital countdown. 3:00. 2:59. 2:58... 192
speaker_heading: 193 TWO-FACE 193
dialog: You have three minutes.
speaker_heading: 194 THE MAYOR 194
dialog: What the hell do you want?
speaker_heading: 195 TWO-FACE 195
dialog: Want, Mr. Mayor? Just one little
text: thing. Batman. Bruised. Broken.
text: Bleeding. In a word: dead.
text: Two-Face turns, showing his good side.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Who do we have assembled before us?
dialog: Gotham's finest. Rich, Influential.
dialog: Smart. One of you must know who
dialog: Batman is. Hell, we'd lay odds one
dialog: of you _is_ Batman.
text: Two-Face spins, offers his evil side.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: So, unless the bat is surrendered to
dialog: us post haste, we're off on a
text: proverbial killing spree. City wide
text: mayhem and murder. Starting tonight.
dialog: With all you lovely folks as our
dialog: very first corpses to be. You have
dialog: three ---well just under three---
dialog: minutes.
text: 196 BRUCE, his eyes riveted on the bomb. No secret is worth 196
text: innocent lives. He stands.
text: Chase, misunderstanding, tries to pull Bruce back down.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Suddenly everyone jumps up, SHOUT and SCREAM, point
text: towards the rafters.
speaker_heading: 197 REVERSE ANGLE 197
text: The Graysons scale the scaffolding, heading for the bomb.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Boys! Move, move, move!
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Cannot get good help these days.
text: 198 Any Thugs not standing sentry fan out, speed up guywires. 198
speaker_heading: 199 CHRIS 199
dialog: (to Dick)
dialog: Go! We'll hold them off!
text: Mom, Dad and Chris swing from trapeze to guywire to
text: platform, trying to delay the Thugs who are actually
text: well-trained gymnasts.
text: 200 Dick launches himself from trapeze to trapeze, bounces 200
text: off the high wire, grabs a catwalk and hoists himself up.
text: 201 Bruce uses the distraction to hop the rail, race through 201
text: the SCREAMING CROWD.
scene_heading: 202 THE TIME - CLOSE. 1:03. 1:02. 1:01. 202
scene_heading: 203 ON THE TRAPEZE 203
text: 204 A Thug grabs Dad Grayson by the leg. Dad manages a jump 204
text: to another trapeze.
text: 205 Mom's not so lucky. A Thug punches her off the uppermost 205
text: platform. She falls in mid-air.
text: 206 FOLKS in the audience SCREAM. 206
text: 207 BRUCE moves fast towards one of the sentry Thugs. 207
text: 208 MOM snags a wildly swinging trapeze with one leg, wraps 208
text: her ankle around a rope, hanging over the floor.
text: 209 A THUG points to the Time Clock 0:45. 0:44. 0:43. 209
text: 210 THE THUGS quit the fight, slide down ropes and guywires. 210
text: 211 DAD AND CHRIS form a human chain to reach Mom. Dad 211
text: anchors Chris who swings out towards Mom. Mom swings her
text: trapeze to gather momentum.
scene_heading: 212 IN THE RAFTERS 212
text: Dick has reached the Bomb. Begins un-lashing the crate.
scene_heading: 213 ON THE CIRCUS FLOOR 213
text: The Thugs begin to pour through the trap door. A few
text: thrill-seekers fire their MACHINE GUNS over the crowd.
scene_heading: 214 THE TIMER - CLOSE. 0:15. 0:14. 0:13. 214
text: 215 DICK scales a service ladder, vies with a roof hatch. 215
scene_heading: 216 TRAPEZE - CLOSE 216
text: Dan and Chris make their final swing. Mom lets go and
text: sails gloriously towards Chris. Below them, no net.
text: 217 BRUCE taps the watching Thug on the shoulder. He spins. 217
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Show's over.
text: A punch and the guy is out. Bruce starts for Two-Face.
text: Another Thug springs up before him, blocking his way.
text: 218 TWO-FACE stares up at the dangling Graysons. He reaches 218
text: into his pocket. Pulls out a familiar coin.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Day in, day out, it always comes
dialog: down to the same old question.
dialog: Life...
dialog: (flips the coin)
dialog: Or death.
text: He looks down. Scarred side up. He draws his gun.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Our kinda day.
text: 219 BRUCE fells the other Thug. Starts to sprint across the 219
text: ring towards Two-Face.
scene_heading: 220 AT THE ROOF 220
text: Dick shoves the hatch open, climbs out.
scene_heading: 221 TIMER - CLOSE. 0:10. 0:09. 0:08. 221
text: 222 MOM spots the pointing gun far below. She SCREAMS. 222
text: 223 BRUCE races for the aiming Two-Face. Almost there. 223
text: Another Thug hits him broadside, knocking him flat.
text: 224 TWO-FACE FIRES. Twice, the first bullet cutting, the 224
text: 225 second severing the rope that holds the Graysons. 225
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Never did like the circus. Too many
dialog: freaks.
text: 226/27 Two-Face disappears down the tunnel. Bruce struggles 226/27
text: to his feet. A CHARGE blows inside the escape hatch,
text: filling the access-way with fire. No way out.
scene_heading: 228 CLOCK - CLOSE. 0:07. 0:06. 228
scene_heading: 229 EXT. HIPPODROME ROOF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 229
text: Dick scrambles onto the roof, begins whipping the bomb
text: rope like a sling.
scene_heading: 230 INT. HIPPODROME - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 230
scene_heading: CLOCK - CLOSE. 0:05. 0:04. 0:03.
scene_heading: 231 EXT. HIPPODROME ROOF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT 231
text: Dick let's fly, the bomb soaring out towards the harbor.
text: 232 THE BOMB hits the water. Sinks. A beat. The night is 232
text: split by a funneling EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: 233 INT. HIPPODROME - NIGHT 233
text: Dick swings excitedly down onto the catwalk. He freezes
text: at the rail.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: No!!!!
text: DICK - CLOSE. On his face, his life's end.
scene_heading: 234 DICK'S POV -- STRAIGHT DOWN 234
text: The dead bodies of his mother, father and brother. Bruce
text: Wayne stands over them, looking up at the boy.
text: 235 BRUCE - CLOSE. His face a tragic echo of Dick's pain. 235
scene_heading: 236 EXT. - WAYNE MANOR - NEXT AFTERNOON 236
text: A police car heads towards the manor. Dick Grayson, pack
text: on his back, winds his motorcycle behind the cruiser.
text: Bruce comes out to greet Gordon. Dick, slightly
text: awestruck, dismounts, wanders into the house.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: It's good of you to take him in.
dialog: He's been filling out forms all day.
text: He hasn't even eaten.
text: Bruce nods, watches Gordon drive off. Heads into...
scene_heading: 237 INT. WAYNE MANOR FOYER - LATE DAY 237
text: As Bruce ENTERS through the open door, Alfred arrives
text: from the other direction.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Welcome, Master Grayson. I'm Alfred.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: How ya doin', Al?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (mouthing)
dialog: Al?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: Big house. How many rooms?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Gee, I'm not sure.
dialog: (across the foyer)
dialog: Alfred? How many rooms? Total?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Ninety-three, including the sauna.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Take any three you like. After you
dialog: get settled we can...
text: 238/39 But Dick isn't listening, stares instead over 238/39
text: Bruce's shoulder as Gordon's cruiser disappears out of
dialog: sight.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Okay. I'm outta here.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Excuse me.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I figure telling that cop I'd stay
dialog: here saved me a truckload of social
dialog: service interviews and good will. So
dialog: no offense but thanks. See ya.
text: Dick heads toward the door. Alfred slips away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Where will you go? The circus is
text: halfway to Metropolis by now.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I got no place at the circus without
dialog: my family. I'm going to get a fix on
dialog: Two-Face. Then I'm going to kill
dialog: him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Listen, Dick. Killing Two-Face won't
dialog: take the pain away. It'll make it
dialog: worse.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Look, spare me the sermons, okay.
dialog: You're just some rich guy who is
dialog: trying to do a good deed. You don't
dialog: even know me.
text: Bruce stares beyond Dick, into his own past.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's not just the sadness. Is it?
dialog: The shame is worse. Feeling like
dialog: somehow you should have saved them.
text: Dick is looking at Bruce now.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You're right. I don't know you. But
dialog: I'm like you.
text: Just then Alfred returns with a tray. Rare London broil.
text: Baby potatoes. Fresh greens. An aromatic feast.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Oh, is the young master leaving?
dialog: Pity. I'll just toss this away then.
dialog: Perhaps the dogs are hungry -
text: Alfred turns, heads up the stairs.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'll set this up in the guest suite.
dialog: Just in case.
text: Dick follows, led by his nose.
text: Bruce smiles, nods slowly, heads into...
scene_heading: 240 INT. - WAYNE LIBRARY 240
text: Bruce touches a vase of fresh roses. Stares at framed
text: photos of Thomas, Martha, of himself, younger. Happy.
dialog: With no knowledge of the future.
text: 241 He turns. Suddenly their coffins are in the middle of the 241
text: room again, the still corpses white in death. He's a
dialog: boy.
text: There on the desk. A leather bound book. (OVER) THUNDER
text: CRACKS.
text: 242 THE FRONT DOOR flies open. An evil wind whips the house. 242
text: 243 THE BOOK is splattered with blood. 243
text: 244 THE WINDOW explodes, shattering glass, and out of the 244
text: darkness flies a huge, evil bat.
speaker_heading: ALFRED (OVER)
dialog: Master Bruce?
text: 245 Bruce is sitting in a chair, holding a rose, head down, 245
text: the images only flashes of memory. Night has fallen. He
text: looks up, eyes. red.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's happening again. Just like my
text: parents. A monster comes out of the
text: night. A scream. Two gunshots. I
dialog: killed them.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What did you say?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He killed them. Two-Face. He
dialog: slaughtered that boy's parents.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No. You said I. I killed them.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Don't be ridiculous.
text: Suddenly a pale light through the window illuminates the
text: room, bathes their faces.
text: 246 THE BATSIGNAL beams in the sky. 246
scene_heading: 247 INT. GUEST (DICK'S) BEDROOM 247
text: Dick Grayson finishes eating. He moves into the
speaker_heading: 248 HALLWAY 248
text: the house seems empty.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Hey?.. Hello?... Anybody home?
text: He's puzzled.
scene_heading: 249 EXT. GOTHAM CITY STREET - NIGHT 249
text: Batman speeds along in the Batmobile. He hits top speed
text: as the car's fusion drive glows red.
text: 250 A giant projector, beaming the Batsignal on the fast
text: night clouds. Batman leaps from a neighboring roof to
text: find no one. Just the huge light and the city wind.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Commissioner...?
text: A shadow appears from behind the searchlight. Chase.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: He's home. I sent the signal.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What's wrong?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Last night at the circus. I noticed
dialog: something about Dent. His coin. He's
dialog: obsessed with justice. It's his
dialog: Achilles' heel. It can be exploited.
text: He steps close to her. Intimidating.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You called me here for this? The
text: Batsignal is not a beeper.
text: Instead of backing off, Chase moves towards him.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I wish I could say my interest in
dialog: you was purely professional...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Are you trying to get under my cape,
dialog: Doctor?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: A girl cannot live by psychoses
dialog: alone.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: It's the car, right? Chicks love the
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What is it about the wrong kind of
dialog: man? In grade school it was guys
dialog: with earrings. College, motorcycles
text: and leather jackets.
text: Chase is right up against him. She runs her fingers along
text: the outline of Batman's mask.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: Now black rubber.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Try a fireman. Less to take off.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I don't mind the work. Pity I can't
text: see behind the mask.
text: Batman stills her hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: We all wear masks.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: My life's an open book. You read?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I'm not the kind of guy who blends
text: in at a family picnic.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: We could give it a try. I'll bring
dialog: the wine, you bring the scarred
dialog: psyche.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: You are direct, aren't you?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You like strong women. I've done my
dialog: homework. Or do I need skin-tight
dialog: vinyl and a whip?
text: Their bodies are close.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I haven't had much luck with
dialog: women...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Maybe you just haven't met the right
dialog: woman...
text: Their mouths are close. Suddenly Commissioner Gordon,
text: trench-coat over pajamas, rushes onto the roof.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I saw the beacon. What's going on?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nothing... False alarm.
text: 251 Batman shoots a Batarang into the night and dives from 251
dialog: the building.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Are you sure?
scene_heading: 252 EXT. SEEDY PART OF TOWN - DAY 252
text: SIRENS WHINE as two cruisers fly down a pot-holed street.
scene_heading: 253 ANGLE ON - A bridge structure. 253
scene_heading: 254 INT. TWO-FACE'S HIDEOUT - DAY 254
text: The room is dark. POLICE SIRENS FADE as a trap door opens
text: in the floor. Two-Face emerges.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Ever have one of those days where
dialog: you just want to kill someone?
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: Riddle me this. (Riddle #3)
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: A mysterious silhouette stands in the dark.
text: Two-Face draws his gun.
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: The answer is, your enemy.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Who are you?
scene_heading: VOICE IN THE DARK
dialog: You can just call me... The Riddler.
text: The figure steps out of shadow. A new costume, lime
text: green, covered with question marks, an emerald eye mask,
text: derby and cane. An exact replica of the Guesser's outfit.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: How'd you find us?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You _are_ Two-Face, you would need to
text: face both rivers, both uptown and
text: downtown simultaneously. Only one
dialog: spot in Gotham serves these bi-
dialog: zonal, bi-coastal needs...
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Congratulations. You get to die on
dialog: the dean's list.
text: Two-Face trains his gun, COCKS the trigger.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Has anyone ever told you have a
dialog: serious impulse control problem?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: You know, I simply love what you've
dialog: done with this place. Heavy Metal
dialog: with just a touch of House and
dialog: Garden.
text: He crosses to Leatherland.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: It's so dark and Gothic and
dialog: disgustingly decadent...
text: He moves to Laceland.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
text: Yet so bright and chipper and
dialog: conservative!
dialog: (to "bad" side)
dialog: It's so you.
dialog: ("good" side)
dialog: And yet so _you_!
dialog: (touching his suit)
dialog: Very few people are both a summer
dialog: _and_ a winter. But you pull it off
dialog: nicely.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: A man with a death wish.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Harvey. You need me. Since you've
dialog: gotten out of Arkham, you've
dialog: managed, what? To bungle stealing a
dialog: safe? Wreck a statue? And, correct
dialog: me if I'm wrong here, but weren't
dialog: you outsmarted by an acned acrobat
dialog: at the circus?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Let's see if you bleed green.
text: Two-Face COCKS back the hammer.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Alright, counselor. Go ahead. Fire
dialog: away. But before you do, let me ask
dialog: you one question. Is it really me
dialog: you want to kill?
text: The Riddler knits his thumbs together, waves his hands
text: over one of the exposed light bulbs that illuminate the
text: room, making a shadow on the wall. The shadow of a bat.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Do you know about hate, my dual
dialog: visaged friend? Slow, burning hate
dialog: that keeps you sleepless until late
dialog: in the night, that wakes you before
dialog: dawn. Do you know that kind of hate?
dialog: I do.
dialog: (circling Harvey)
dialog: Kill him? Seems like a good enough
dialog: idea. But have you thought it
dialog: through? A few bullets, a quick
text: spray of blood, a fast, thrilling
dialog: rush, and then what? Wet hands and
dialog: post-coital depression. Is it really
dialog: enough?
dialog: (up close)
dialog: Why not ruin him first? Expose his
text: frailty. And then, when he is at his
dialog: weakest, crush him in your hand.
text: 255 Riddler gestures to the front of the room, where Leather 255
text: and Lace, on their respective sides, are fixed to their
text: TV's via the green beam of the box.
text: He tosses a receiver electrode to Two-Face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: ...Take a hit.
text: Two-Face looks at the electrode curiously.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (taps his forehead)
dialog: Up, up, up.
text: A beat. Then, gun still trained on the Riddler, Two-Face
text: holds the receiver to his skull. He's blasted with a dose
text: of Leather and Lace's neural energy.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Holy shit.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: So not everyone can be a poet.
dialog: Still, I respect the sentiment.
text: Riddler waves his hand in front of the girls' eyes. No
text: response. Definitely zoned.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (to the girls)
dialog: This is your brain on the box.
dialog: (off Harvey)
dialog: This is your brain on their brain.
text: He plants an electrode on his own forehead.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: This is my brain on your brain on
dialog: their brain. Does anybody else feel
dialog: like a fried egg?
text: The Riddler grabs Two-Face's receiver.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No. Wait...
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Addictive isn't it? Just Say No.
dialog: Until I say yes. A little fringe
dialog: benefit of working with me. Now
dialog: here's the concept, counselor.
dialog: Crime. My I.Q., your AK-47. You help
dialog: me gather production capital so I
dialog: can produce enough of these
dialog: (pulling a Box from his vest)
dialog: to create an empire that will
dialog: eclipse Bruce Wayne's forever. And,
dialog: in return I will help you solve the
dialog: greatest riddle of all. Who is
dialog: Batman?
text: Two-Face eyes The Riddler, interest dawning in his eyes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You are a very strange person. You
dialog: speak as if we are old friends,
dialog: which we are not. You barge in here
dialog: unarmed when it is clearly suicidal
text: to do so. Still, an intriguing
dialog: proposition.
dialog: (pulling his coin)
dialog: Heads: we take your offer.
text: He rests the barrel on The Riddler's temple.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Tails: we blow your _goddamned head
dialog: off_!
scene_heading: 256 FOLLOW THE COIN 256
text: as Two-Face FLIPS it high in the air... SPINNING...
scene_heading: 257 INT. JEWELRY EXCHANGE 257
text: Thugs grab handfuls of gems as a Guard presses the ALARM
text: BUTTON. LOONY TOONS and MERRIE MELODIES THEMES play as
text: Riddler's animated face fills the surveillance screens.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: The Riddler and Two-Face stand over a palette of black
text: jeweler's felt. Littered with bright, sparkling diamonds.
text: The Riddler slips on a monocle, lifts a stone.
text: Two-Face grabs the entire palette, pours the diamonds
text: into a loot bag, heads towards another counter.
scene_heading: 258 INT. BATMOBILE - MOVING 258
text: WINDSCREEN - CLOSE. A flashing message: Crime In Progress.
text: 259 An ever changing tactical map shows Batman's narrowing 259
text: proximity to the crime site.
scene_heading: 260 EXT. STREET 260
text: The Batmobile rushes to a halt. Batman leaps out, SMASHES
text: through a door into...
scene_heading: 261 INT. BEAUTY SALON 261
text: ...Girls LAUGH and flirt. Even behind his mask, Batman
text: fumes. Obviously misled.
scene_heading: 262 INT. WAYNE MANOR - BRUCE'S BEDROOM - DAY 262
text: Bruce sits watching the news.
speaker_heading: ANCHOR
dialog: ...working with Two-Face, Gotham's
dialog: new criminal mastermind is calling
dialog: himself The Riddler. Twenty million
dialog: in diamonds were stolen yesterday
text: with no sign of Batman.
text: 263 SCREEN - CLOSE. Changes. Edward stands on the Claw Island. 263
text: A small abandoned island in Gotham Harbor.
speaker_heading: ANCHOR
dialog: In other news, entrepreneur Edward
dialog: Nygma has signed a lease for Claw
dialog: Island. Nygma says he plans to break
dialog: ground on an electronics plant....
scene_heading: 264 EXT. ARMORED TRUCK BASE 264
text: Armored trucks sit open on the street. Two-toned thugs
text: carry out bags of loot.
text: Two-Face and the Riddler stand before four guards, each
text: sentry held captive by a two-toned crony.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Close your fist. Reach back.
text: Two-Face swings, clocks the guard on the chin. CRACK. Out
text: like a light.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Get it?
text: Riddler nods tentatively. Manages a weak fist. Throws a
text: feeble punch. The Guard looks barely startled.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Riddler. You punch like a girl. Put
dialog: some heart into it.
text: Two-Face hauls off, hits the third Guard. Out he goes.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Okay. Okay. I got it.
text: He leans way back, tries again. Barely a glancing blow.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: My God.
text: He walks away, shaking his head, disgusted. The Riddler
text: turns back to the guard. Ready for another try.
scene_heading: 265 INT. WAYNE MANOR - HALLWAY 265
scene_heading: 266 NEWSPAPER - CLOSE. RIDDLER & TWO-FACE TERRORIZE GOTHAM. 266
text: PULL BACK TO REVEAL
text: Alfred, newspaper in hand, finds Dick trying to open the
text: door which leads to the Bat Cave.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: May I help you, Master Grayson?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: How come this is the only locked
dialog: door around this museum? What's back
dialog: there?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master Wayne's dead wives.
text: Dick grins. Alfred watches him go, a wry smile on his
text: face. The coast now clear, he disappears into the secret
dialog: doorway.
speaker_heading: 267 WIDER 267
text: Dick stands hidden in an alcove, watching.
scene_heading: 268 EXT. CLAW ISLAND - DAY 268
text: Tremendous construction in progress.
scene_heading: 269 INT. CLAW ISLAND 269
text: Silhouettes of robot arms manufacture the Box.
text: Edward watches on, giving Two-Face a quick hit from a
text: glowing electrode, then snatches back the receiver.
text: Harvey eyes the electrode with an addict's hungry eyes.
scene_heading: 270 EXT. GOTHAM LOADING DOCK 270
text: Two-Face and Thugs steal priceless paintings while the
text: Guards sit bound and gagged in their booth.
text: Riddler stares up at a freshly spray-painted (RIDDLE #4)
text: on the boat's hull.
scene_heading: 271 INT. WAYNE MANOR - LAUNDRY ROOM 271
text: Dick stands watching TV while he washes and dries his
text: clothes using martial arts techniques.
speaker_heading: 272 VONDELLE (ON SCREEN) 272
dialog: Has Batman lost his touch? We've
dialog: become a city of sissies crying
text: Batman, Batman, Batman at the first
text: sign of trouble.
scene_heading: 273 INT. GOTHAM OPERA - NIGHT 273
text: The Barber of Seville is in full swing. As the bejewelled
text: audience watches, the translation is being spelled out
text: for them on a large electronic screen over the stage.
speaker_heading: 274 BACKSTAGE 274
text: Green gloved hands attach a Box to the translator.
speaker_heading: 275 AUDIENCE 275
text: The familiar green beam of The Box transfixes the
text: audience and the performers. Two-Face and his Thugs take
text: the balcony in protective green sunglasses, strip folks
dialog: of their cash and jewels.
text: 276 The Riddler stands on stage. 276
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: I just love a captive audience.
text: He picks up the ARIA A-CAPELLA, races through the stunned
text: orchestra, collecting valuables.
text: As he goes, he moves the mouths of his victims, turning
text: the robbery into an opera of his own.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Oh, but all I want is to take all
dialog: your jewels oh oh.
dialog: (moving a woman's mouth)
dialog: No, oh you villain don't take my
dialog: jewels, oh no.
dialog: (singing back)
dialog: I will.
dialog: (a man's mouth)
dialog: No you won't.
dialog: (singing)
dialog: I will.
dialog: (another man)
dialog: No you won't.
text: 277 Still SINGING, he leaps back onto the stage where Harvey 277
text: and his Thugs arrive, bags full of loot. Riddler plays
text: tiny hidden buttons in his cane, directing Batman.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Where are you sending Batboy this time?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Here. Get a good seat.
text: 278 OUT THE WINDOW 278
text: The Batmobile makes a quick stop before the opera house.
text: 279 Riddler, Two-Face and Thugs disappear just as...
speaker_heading: BATMAN
text: drops to the Stage from the ceiling. He looks around at
text: the stunned audience.
text: He spots a small box with a question mark on it sitting
text: center stage. Lifts the top. Within, a pair of plastic
text: hands applaud him.
text: 280 THE TRANSLATOR - CLOSE. Vaporizes, the beam snapping off. 280
speaker_heading: 281 THE AUDIENCE 281
text: startled by Batman's sudden appearance on stage, starts
text: LAUGHING. Until someone notices her tiara is missing. A
text: SCREAM. The first of many.
scene_heading: 282 EXT. GOTHAM TIMES BUILDING - NIGHT 282
scene_heading: Electronic headlines circles- BAT FLOPS AT OPERA. RIDDLER
scene_heading: AND TWO-FACE STEAL MILLIONS.
scene_heading: 283 EXT. NYGMATECH HEADQUARTERS - CLAW ISLAND - DAY 283
text: Finally complete. In the b.g. a giant corporate sign
text: reading NYGMATECH is raised by cranes.
text: Edward Nygma, dressed like Bruce Wayne to the smallest
text: detail, stands on a podium, giving a press conference.
text: Scores of APPLAUDING Employees and Media watch on. The
dialog: Gotham Society Matrons COO.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (OVER)
dialog: Why sit back when you can be part of
dialog: the show?
scene_heading: 284 QUICK CUTS OF NEWSPAPERS 284
speaker_heading: EDWARD (OVER)
dialog: ...Nygmatech brings the joy 3-D
dialog: entertainment into your own home.
text: 285 CUTS OF MAGAZINES all proclaiming Edward as the new King 285
dialog: of Electronics in Gotham City.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell
dialog: you my vision for the future. "The
dialog: Box" in every home in America. And
text: one day, the world.
scene_heading: 286 EXT. GOTHAM CITY - MONTAGE 286
text: A tenement, where a poor family scrapes together their
text: savings on a newspaper ad for "The Box"....
text: 287 An electronics store, where Alfred, at the head of a long 287
text: line, hands over a check to receive "The Box"...
text: 288 A resplendent household where husband, wife, and kids 288
text: each watch individual TV's connected to their own Boxes.
scene_heading: 289 INT. NYGMATECH - RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 289
text: Riddler sits atop a tremendous electronic throne, facing
text: a wall bank of TV monitors all running newsreel footage
text: of folks using "The Box". From overhead, a giant diode
text: delivers massive pulses of glowing neural energy.
text: 290 RIDDLER'S HEAD - CLOSE. His brain is growing. 290
scene_heading: 291 EXT. ELECTRONIC STORES 291
text: Crowds of people line up. Some stores say "SOLD OUT"
dialog: others "YES, WE HAVE `THE BOX'."
scene_heading: 292 INT. BATCAVE 292
text: Bruce stands over the Batcomputer.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Riddler and Two-Face are tweaking
text: the data before the computer pulls
text: it off the emergency bands.
text: Alfred stands in his lab area, trying to disassemble "The
text: Box". He gets the lid off.
text: 293 BOX - CLOSE. The circuitry inside automatically vaporizes. 293
scene_heading: 294 INT. NYGMATECH - EDWARD'S CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT 294
text: Leather and Lace sit with the Riddler and Two-Face as the
text: two villains pass an electrode between them.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Sure, E = MC squared. Until you
dialog: factor in more than three
dialog: dimensions. Then... Damn. Hit us
dialog: again.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Haven't you had enough? Don't Think
dialog: And Drive.
text: Harvey waves his revolver in Riddler's face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Be my guest.
text: Two-Face and Leather and Lace take another hit of the
text: glowing neural energy. Smiles.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Our Paleolithic yearnings are best
dialog: expressed in a pre-linguistic-
dialog: (off the befuddled girls)
dialog: Sorry. Just thinking out loud.
text: Harvey leans back, buzzed, the electrode slipping from
text: his hand. Leather grabs for it. Not fast enough. Riddler
text: snatches it away.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (to Leather)
dialog: Not until you do that thing I like.
dialog: (taking a hit)
dialog: On se tue pour des mesnonges. J'ai
dialog: gache ma vie...
dialog: (off the electrode)
dialog: Woah. Harsh toke.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Don't bogart that 'trode.
text: He tosses Harv the electrode over Lace's ill-timed grab.
text: Harvey takes a hit.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (epiphanous)
dialog: Oh my God. Jim Morrison was right.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: About what?
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Everything.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER & TWO-FACE
dialog: (simultaneous)
dialog: ...Yeah.
scene_heading: 295 INT. WAYNE MANOR - DAY 295
speaker_heading: TV - CLOSE.
text: Vondelle stands before the familiar panel of experts.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: This Box is nothing more than an
dialog: electronic narcotic.
speaker_heading: ROYCE
dialog: Thousands more Gothamites each day
dialog: are tuning out by tuning in to its
text: holographic fantasies.
speaker_heading: AIMS
dialog: It's turning citizens into
dialog: zombies...
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Gripe, gripe, gripe. Isn't this what
dialog: they said about TV? I think "The
dialog: Box" is the future. What's your
dialog: opinion? I want to know...
text: 296 FAVOR Alfred as he shuts off the set, moves into the 296
text: 297 hallway and the locked door to the Batcave. 297
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: (calling out)
dialog: Master Dick?
text: High above, Dick appears on the third floor landing.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Up here, Al.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Just checking, young sir.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Four seconds from...
text: Below, Alfred opens the door.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Now!
text: Alfred disappears inside and the door begins to close.
text: Dick leaps the bannister, grabs the chandelier, swings to
text: a large tapestry, slides down and into the passageway as
text: the door SLAMS shut.
scene_heading: 298 INT. SECRET HALL 298
text: Unable to stop, Dick barrels through a dark doorway,
text: tumbles down the long stairway onto
scene_heading: 299 THE BATCAVE FLOOR 299
text: Alfred stands in his lab area. The two stare at each
text: other in utter disbelief.
scene_heading: 300 INT. CHASE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 300
text: Big. Open. A life still in boxes. The door opens,
dialog: producing Bruce and Chase.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The style of the letters I'm getting
dialog: matches those found at the crime
dialog: sites. Why would The Riddler be
dialog: sending me riddles?
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: Who's your decorator? U-Haul?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Sorry. I haven't even had time to
dialog: unpack. Instant coffee okay?
text: Chase disappears into the kitchen as Bruce takes off his
text: coat. She reappears with a small box. Hands it to Bruce.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What's this?
text: Bruce opens the box. Within, a dream doll.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Call it clinical intuition. I
dialog: thought your dreams might need
dialog: changing.
text: Bruce looks at Chase. He stares out the window a beat,
text: deciding. As he speaks now his words are halting, self
dialog: disclosure difficult for him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My parents were murdered. In front
dialog: of me. I was just a kid.
text: Chase nods. She knows.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: A lot of what happened is jagged.
dialog: Pieces missing. I can't really
dialog: remember. I just get flashes.
dialog: Usually in my dreams. I'd kind of
dialog: gotten used to them. At least
dialog: accepted them....
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: And now....
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They've changed. The dreams, I mean.
dialog: There's a new element I don't
dialog: understand. A book. Black. Covered
dialog: in leather....
text: (OVER) The kettle begins to WHISTLE.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Damn. I'll be right back.
text: Bruce is agitated, starts to looking around. At her desk
text: he finds a virtual shrine to Batman. Pictures.
dialog: Newsphotos. Articles.
speaker_heading: CHASE (OVER)
dialog: Find anything interesting?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Why do I feel like the other man,
dialog: here?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Come on, Bruce. This is what I do
dialog: for a living.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'd say this goes a little beyond
dialog: taking your work home.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What do you want me to say? That I'm
dialog: not attracted to him?
text: 301 She hits a button and on screen newsfootage rolls of 301
text: Batman fighting Catwoman.
speaker_heading: 302 CHASE 302
dialog: (mesmerized)
dialog: Look at the abuse he's taking. He's
dialog: not just fighting criminals. He's
text: punishing himself.
text: Chase hits a button, freezing on Batman's face.
speaker_heading: CHASE
text: It's as if he's paying some great
dialog: penance. What crime could he have
dialog: committed to deserve a life sentence
dialog: of such agony?
text: Bruce hits a key, blanking the screen.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Maybe he just had a lousy childhood,
dialog: is that it Doc?
text: Chase grabs his hand as it comes away from the keyboard.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Why do you do that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Throw up that ridiculous superficial
dialog: mask. If you're jealous...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm not-
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You want me close but you won't let
dialog: me near. What's the terrible, dark
dialog: secret you're protecting everyone
dialog: from?
text: In the mirror they are half in shadow, half in light.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: In a sense we are all two people.
dialog: The side we show in daylight. And
dialog: that side we keep in shadow.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Rage. Anger. Passion. Pain.
text: He pulls her to him. Their faces are close. A breath
text: apart. Suddenly his watch begins to BEEP.
text: 303/04 Bruce turns over his wrist. Depresses a stud on 303/04
text: his watch. The face turns into a screen.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Sorry to bother you, sir. I have
dialog: some rather distressing news about
dialog: Master Dick.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Is he all right?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm afraid Master Dick has... gone
dialog: traveling.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He ran away?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Actually, he took the car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He boosted the Jag?
dialog: (relieved)
dialog: Is that all?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Not the Jaguar. The _other_ car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The _Rolls_?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: _No_, sir. _The_ _other_ _car_!
text: A beat. Then Bruce closes his eyes.
scene_heading: 305 EXT. ARKHAM SQUARE - NIGHT 204
text: Gotham night life. Neon, traffic, sleaze.
text: The Batmobile cruises into the center of the strip.
text: A group of flashy low riders pull in front of the
text: Batmobile. They hydraulic up and down competitively.
text: The Batmobile wipers sweep the windshield. The bat-foil
text: opens and closes. Finally the car hydraulics higher and
text: faster, but a bit wildly, the driver barely in control.
text: 306 The low riders, put to shame, PEEL OUT. (OVER) A SCREAM 306
text: cuts the night. A GIRL runs for her life, chased by SIX
text: GANG MEMBERS into a dark alley.
text: The Batmobile TEARS after her.
scene_heading: 307 EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT 307
text: The Thugs have the Girl surrounded, push her back and
text: forth between them like a rag doll.
text: The Batmobile SCREECHES into the alley. The door slides
text: open. From the smoking hatchway emerges...Dick.
text: Needless to say, this get the Thugs' attention. They let
dialog: go of the girl.
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: Who the hell are you?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (low, ominous)
dialog: I'm Batman.
dialog: (looking down)
dialog: Damn, did I forget to dress again?
text: The Thugs close. One rushes Dick while another swings a
text: chain at his head. Mistake.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Chains. You don't seem like the
dialog: type.
text: Dick's hand shoots out fast, grabbing the chain. He open
text: palms the Thug in the chin, whips the chain into the gut
dialog: of the other villain.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: The Caped Crusader strikes again.
dialog: Sans cape, of course.
text: Two more rush him.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Another victory for the Dark Knight.
text: Dick goes up with a flying front kick, knocking one down,
text: fells another on the return with a spinning back fist.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (off the unconscious goons)
text: Dark nighty-night.
text: Dick stares at the remaining thug. Smiles.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Is your will up to date?
text: The last Thug takes a look at Dick, turns and races away.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I could definitely get behind this
dialog: super hero gig.
text: Dick nods to the awestruck Girl.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Ma'am.
text: He starts towards the car.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: Wait.
text: She moves close.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: You forgot the part where you kiss
dialog: the girl.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: Right.
text: He leans in, happy to oblige when suddenly...
text: (OVER) SCREAMS AND SHOUTS as the Thug who got away comes
text: racing back into the alley, followed by maybe thirty new
text: gang members, all wielding bats and chains.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Uh-oh.
text: He pulls the girl behind him, readies for war.
scene_heading: 308 A DARK FIGURE 308
text: flies out of the night.
text: Batman, on a wire, swings into the group, sending them
text: scattering in all directions. The bad guys race off.
scene_heading: 309 THE BATMOBILE 309
text: REVS UP, races to Batman.
text: 310 Batman lifts Dick by his collar, drops him into the 310
text: passenger seat. Hops into the other side.
speaker_heading: GIRL
dialog: (shouting)
dialog: Don't you want my number?
text: She watches as the Batmobile speeds away into the night.
scene_heading: 311 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT - LATER 311
text: Bruce and Dick argue.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I need to be part of this.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Absolutely not.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Me and my brother Chris were putting
dialog: money aside so our folks could
dialog: retire. Dad's knee was going. Chris
dialog: was engaged, you know that? Two-Face
dialog: took...everything. Now I can pay him
dialog: back.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What I do isn't about revenge.
text: Dick glances at a framed headline. The Wayne murders.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Right, slick. Whatever you say.
text: Bruce grabs him. Hard.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: This isn't a game.
text: Dick pushes him off. Harder.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Back off, man.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You don't understand. It's an
dialog: addiction. You fight night after
text: night, trying to fill the emptiness.
text: But the pain's back in the morning.
dialog: And somewhere along the way it stops
dialog: being a choice.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: I want better for you.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Save the sermons about how great you
dialog: want my life to be, okay, Bruce? If
dialog: it weren't for Batman my parents
dialog: wouldn't be dead. You don't get it,
dialog: do you? This is all your fault.
text: Dick storms out. Bruce stares after him with tired eyes.
scene_heading: 312 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM HOTEL - NIGHT 312
text: At the marble entrance, the red carpet is rolled out for
text: a pull-out-the-stops party. Over the door, a banner
dialog: proclaims "Nygmatech -- Imagine the Future."
text: At the curb folks dressed in over-the-top runway
text: fashions, pour from luxury cars, hand off keys to a
text: battalion of scurrying valets.
text: Next car up -- Bruce Wayne's Rolls, driven by Alfred. A
text: valet helps Chase out. She looks stunning.
text: Bruce leans over Alfred before stepping out of the car.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Too much wealth. Too fast. Half of
text: Gotham zombied-out. A technology
text: that self destructs. He's protecting
dialog: more than industrial secrets,
dialog: Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I shall be near at hand. Should you
dialog: need me. And sir, I know it's
dialog: difficult but try and have a good
dialog: time.
scene_heading: 313 INT. RITZ GOTHAM ROOF - NIGHT 313
text: Over the top golden glitz. A kind of Versailles meets
text: punk meets couture. And in the middle, Edward, dressed as
dialog: Louis XIV.
text: The room is packed with people sipping exotic cocktails,
text: munching hors d'oeuvres. Conversation BUZZ is high.
dialog: Into this zoo walk Bruce and Chase.
text: As brightly-lighted stations throughout the room, showy
text: displays announce "THE NEW BOX". Pretty, barely-clad
text: showgirls invite partygoers step into various green
text: columns of light.
text: 314 Bruce scans the room as he and Chase pause by the first 314
text: display, where a Socialite steps into a column of energy.
text: She GASPS with delight as she finds herself suddenly
text: dazzling in diamonds from head to toe.
text: 315 They pass the next column where a CHUBBY PROFESSOR, sword 315
text: in hand, fights off a knight on horseback.
text: 316 They pass the next display where a BALD GUY steps into a 316
text: beam. Suddenly, he is in a classic stoner's pad circa
text: 1967. And, best of all, he has long flowing hair.
text: Chase looks amused, Bruce suspicious.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: If I didn't know better, I'd say you
dialog: were sulking.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Keep me off the couch, Doc. Your
dialog: fees are a little rich for me.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Touchy, touchy.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (not biting)
dialog: So how goes your `scholarly' pursuit
dialog: of Batman?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Oh God, Bruce. You're still jealous.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (flaring)
dialog: Spare me the diagnosis, okay? You're
dialog: being ridiculous. I can't be jealous
dialog: of Batman.
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: Can I?
scene_heading: 317 ACROSS THE ROOM 317
text: Edward stands flanked by Gotham's Society Matrons as
text: PRESS, including Vondelle Millions, SNAP photos and hurl
dialog: questions.
speaker_heading: NEWSCASTER
dialog: You're outselling Wayne Enterprises.
dialog: Any comments?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Actually, I'm outselling Wayne Tech
dialog: two to one...
speaker_heading: JOURNALIST
dialog: The Times has named you Gotham's
dialog: bachelor of the year. What do you
dialog: have to say about that?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You might want to ask Bruce Wayne.
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Bruce, old man!
text: 318 Edward crosses the room to greet Chase and Bruce. All 318
text: stand now, surrounded by press and partygoers.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: So glad you could come.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What? Oh, Edward. Hi.
dialog: Congratulations. Great party-
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: The press were just wondering what
dialog: it feels like to be outsold,
text: outclassed, and generally outdone in
dialog: every way...
dialog: (noticing Chase)
dialog: And what light through yonder window
dialog: breaks? `Tis the east. And you
dialog: are...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (charmed)
dialog: Chase?
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Of course you are. And what a grand
dialog: pursuit you must be.
dialog: (to Bruce)
dialog: What do you think of my new
dialog: invention?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What? Oh, it's very impressive.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
text: Gracious even in defeat. How vaguely
dialog: disappointing. When all this could
dialog: have been ours together.
text: Edward stills a passing waiter and his tray of champagne.
text: Crystal flutes for all. He toasts Chase.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: No grape could be more intoxicating
dialog: than you, my dear. But we make due.
dialog: To your charms.
dialog: (clinking hers)
dialog: Skol.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (raising his)
dialog: Nostrovia.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: (pausing)
dialog: La'chiem.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (casual)
dialog: Slanta.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Rinka.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Banzai.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm drinking.
dialog: And she does.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I notice you've sub-divided your B
text: coupons. Feeling a little light on
dialog: principle?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Actually, I like to divest just
text: before a major re-capitalization.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I wouldn't race to the bank. Old
dialog: regimes crumble every day. Life is
dialog: a cycle. Remember Yeats; turn, turn
text: the widening gyre. The Falconer
dialog: cannot hear the Falcon...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (finishing the poem)
text: And the beast slouches towards
dialog: Bethelem.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Excuse me, boys. I'd hate to stop
dialog: this testosterone flood on my
dialog: account-
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Quite right. Shall we dance?
text: And with that, Edward draws Chase onto to dance floor.
text: 319 As Chase and Edward dance in the b.g. Bruce walks over to 319
text: one of the displays. Examines a control station for the
text: green beam. Tries to pry open a circuit panel.
speaker_heading: SHOWGIRL (OVER)
dialog: Naughty, naughty.
text: She slaps his hand playfully. Bruce smiles an apology.
text: Looks around. No other choice. He steps into a beam.
text: 320 EDWARD twirls Chase, watches Bruce enter the beam. He 320
dialog: smiles.
text: 321 BRUCE - POV. Colorful planets soar all around him. Suddenly 321
text: the beam flashes. There, racing towards him, a giant Bat.
scene_heading: 322 BACK TO SCENE 322
text: All beams wink out as GUN FIRE bursts across the room.
text: TWO-FACE and his Thugs stand at every entrance.
text: BRUCE backs away, slips towards a service door.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Alright, folks, this is an old-
dialog: fashioned, low-tech stick-up. We're
dialog: interested in the basics: jewelry,
dialog: cash, watches, high-end cellular
dialog: phones. Hand 'em over nice and easy
text: and no one gets hurt.
text: Two-Face's Thugs charge the room. The crowd SCREAMS.
scene_heading: 323 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM ALLEY - NIGHT 323
text: Bruce hand-slides down fire-escapes, hits the alley
dialog: running.
scene_heading: 324 EXT. ALLEY 324
text: Bruce ducks into the Rolls.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Emergency, Alfred.
scene_heading: 325 INT. ROLLS 325
text: A secret panel in the back opens. A Batsuit.
scene_heading: 326 INT. PARTY 326
text: The Thugs circulate quickly, yanking jewels from ears and
text: necks, grabbing wallets and purses, filling sacks.
text: Ed pushes his way against the crowd, through Two-Face's
text: ring of personal guards and right up to Two-Face's face.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: You're ruining my big party. Are you
dialog: insane? Actually, considering your
dialog: dual persona, let's just forget the
dialog: question.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We're sick of waiting for you to
dialog: deliver The Bat, Riddle boy. You
dialog: promised us Batman.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Patience, oh bifurcated one.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Screw patience. We want him dead.
dialog: (looking around)
text: An nothing brings out The Bat like
text: a little mayhem and murder.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Oh well, in that case. As long as
dialog: you were going to rob me, you could
dialog: have at least let me in on the
dialog: caper. We could have _organized_ this,
dialog: _planned it_, pre-sold the movie
dialog: rights.
text: (OVER) the CRASH of breaking glass.
speaker_heading: 327 BATMAN 327
text: flies in through a window, kicking a row of Thugs down
text: before he lets go his rope and lands on the floor.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Harv, babe, I gotta be honest. Your
dialog: entrance was good. His was better.
dialog: What's the difference? Showmanship.
text: Two-Face shoves Edward away, looking for a clean shot. He
text: FIRES a couple of times, but only destroys an ice
text: sculpture and some liquor bottles. More SCREAMS.
text: 328 One huge Thug charges Batman. Batman heaves him overhead, 328
text: throws him, CRASHING, into a display of stacked Boxes.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE (OVER)
dialog: Batman, Batman, Batman help!
text: A Thug has a gun to his throat. Batman kicks the weapon
text: out of his hand.
speaker_heading: VONDELLE
dialog: Batman. You're my _God_!!!
text: 329 Another Thug has Chase to a wall, hand around her pearls. 329
speaker_heading: BATMAN (OVER)
dialog: Excuse me.
text: He head-butts the Thug. The guy goes down.
text: Chase leans up and kisses him, hard and hot on the mouth.
text: The chemistry here is undeniable.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Call me.
text: Batman spins, goes for another group of Thugs.
scene_heading: (OVER) POLICE SIRENS.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Okay boys. Phase two.
text: And with that, he and his Thugs race for the elevator.
text: The doors close.
text: 330 (OVER) CHEERS erupt for Batman as he races onto the 330
dialog: balcony -- and jumps!
scene_heading: 331 BATMAN'S - POV - AERIAL 331
text: Harvey and Thugs disappear past Under Construction signs,
text: down the stairs of an as yet completed subway station.
scene_heading: 332 EXT. RITZ GOTHAM - NIGHT 332
text: PARTY GUESTS - POV. Gripping the edges of his cape, Batman
text: glides 60 floors down the skyscraper towards the street.
text: 333 Batman plummets into the construction sight. 333
scene_heading: 334 INT. DESERTED SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS) 334
text: Gothic. Deserted. Under construction. Batman hits the
dialog: platform.
text: BATMAN - POV. Shadows race down the dark tunnel ahead.
text: He pursues.
speaker_heading: 335 TUNNEL 335
text: Harvey and Thugs, racing away.
speaker_heading: THUG
text: Bat's right behind us.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Excellent.
scene_heading: 336 INT. ABANDONED STATION - VENTILATION SHAFT 336
text: A wide spiral staircase of scaffolding hugs the walls of
text: a tremendous ventilation shaft.
text: The Thugs race down the steps, knocking out bits of
text: scaffolding as they go, sending entire chunks of already
text: traversed staircase plummeting past them.
speaker_heading: PAN UP
text: Batman arrives on a wide platform of scaffolding at the
text: top of the staircase. His cape whips up around him as if
text: from some low infernal wind.
text: 337 BATMAN - POV. Down the fragmenting staircase, at the bottom 337
text: of the shaft, a tremendous fan spins, chewing chunks of
text: falling scaffolding and plaster, spitting plumes of dust.
speaker_heading: 338 TWO-FACE 338
text: stands at the bottom of the well. He grabs a rack of
text: scaffolding and wrenches the old aluminum supports away.
speaker_heading: 339 THE PLATFORM 339
text: where Batman is standing gives way, planks falling,
text: sending Batman tumbling towards the deadly blades below.
text: 340 BATMAN - POV. The giant whirling blades, coming up fast. 340
text: 341 BATMAN falls, stairways and laughing Thugs whipping past. 341
text: His hand shoots out and grabs
speaker_heading: A THUG
text: by the jacket, wrenching the fabric over the goon's head,
text: jerking him hard into the railing like a human anchor.
text: Batman climbs the struggling Thug like a ladder, leaps
text: onto the staircase, CRACKS the Thug's head on the rail,
text: then races down the stairs.
scene_heading: 342 BOTTOM OF THE SHAFT 342
text: The remaining Thugs disappear through a dark doorway.
text: Batman runs past the BEATING fan blades into...
scene_heading: 343 INT. ABANDONED TUNNEL 343
text: Dark. Steep and sloping. The Thugs are running dead
text: ahead. Without stopping they begin grabbing pieces of
text: debris, flip them under their feet, begin riding down the
text: descending tunnel like snow-boarders.
text: Batman races after them.
scene_heading: 344 THE SNOWBOARDERS 344
dialog: really are good. They ride the rails. The low gas pipes.
text: Even bank the curving sides of the tunnel.
text: 345 A THUG - CLOSE. Looks back to see Batman closing. Mistake. 345
speaker_heading: WHIP PAN
text: as he is clotheslined by a low hanging danger sign. He
text: flies off the snowboard backwards. Out cold.
text: Batman races past him.
text: 346 The end of the tunnel slopes so drastically the dark maw 346
text: at the end seems more a pit than a door.
text: 347 The boarders circle and one by one, drop through like 347
text: bits of filth down a drain.
text: 348 Batman drops into the darkness landing on a small ledge. 348
text: Beyond a precipitous drop he turns to face...
scene_heading: 349 INT. ABANDONED SUBWAY STATION 349
dialog: Years ago this cavernous space glistened with immense
text: Gothic statuary, elaborate tile mosaics, tremendous
text: decorative arches and spectacular cathedral ceilings.
dialog: No more.
text: Now the giant space, from floor to ceiling is a frozen
text: maelstrom of twisting cast iron trusses, broken steam
text: pipes, fragmented scaffolding and hanging cables.
text: 350 Down these man-made slopes and obstacles ride the 350
text: snowboarding Thugs. Cruising pipes. Jumping curved faces
text: of statues. Jacking from scaffold to truss.
text: 351 Batman whips a pair of nun-chucks from his belt over a 351
text: hanging metal rail, using the chain as a pulley, shoots
text: down a curving rail into the mad dance of twisting steel.
speaker_heading: 352 A THUG 352
text: FIRES at him from his whizzing board as it careens along
text: an adjacent piece of scaffolding.
text: 353 BATMAN angles towards him, picking up speed. 353
text: 354 THE THUG banks off some statuary. Takes a few more SHOTS. 354
text: 355 BATMAN shoots around the curve, jumps from one rail to 355
text: the next, catches the villain in the face with his boot,
text: and sends him flying.
text: 356 ANOTHER THUG shoots past over head. 356
text: 357 BATMAN flips onto another pipe, is closing fast, chasing 357
text: the Thug towards a loop that banks towards the blackness
text: of an abandoned tunnel.
text: He is closing on the Thug. Closer. Closer.
text: 358 Suddenly the Thug, hops to a truss, the rail Batman is on 358
text: whipping him around a curve that banks into the mouth of
text: the tunnel. (OVER) GUNSHOTS.
speaker_heading: 359 TWO-FACE 359
text: stands in the shadows, FIRING his machine pistol, blowing
text: a hole in the curving rail directly in front of Batman.
text: 360 The RAIL breaks. 360
text: Batman flies off directly into the dark tunnel.
text: 361 BATMAN - POV. A rushing darkness. He SMASHES into a wall. 361
scene_heading: 362 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 362
text: Two-Face stands staring into the dark with his Thugs. He
text: grabs an aging valve wheel set into the crumbling wall.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Nothing worse than a bad case of
dialog: gas.
text: He begins to turn the CREAKING wheel.
scene_heading: 363 INT. INNER TUNNEL 363
text: A long forgotten pipe by Batman begins to HISS a thick
text: purple gas.
scene_heading: 364 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 364
text: Two-Face swings a grenade launcher before him. Takes a
text: step back. Aims into the tunnel.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Lights. Camera. Action.
text: As his Thugs scramble for cover, Two-Face FIRES. The
text: grenade flies into the tunnel, SLAMMING into the gas
scene_heading: main. AN EXPLOSION.
text: Suddenly a tremendous secondary EXPLOSION. Debris falls
text: everywhere as the gas ignites, the mouth of the tunnel
text: suddenly brightening into a flaming white fireball.
scene_heading: 365 INT. TUNNEL 365
text: The huge fireball rushes towards Batman. Batman wraps
text: himself in his cape.
text: 366 HAND - CLOSE. As he reaches to his utility belt. Presses a 366
dialog: stud there.
text: 367 His cape begins to run and flow like water morphing into 367
dialog: a protective sphere just as...
text: 368 A tremendous fireball ROARS races down the tunnel 368
text: engulfing Batman in a world of flame.
scene_heading: 369 INT. MOUTH OF TUNNEL 369
text: Two-Face stands staring into the inferno.
text: Billowing smoke, residual flame and falling debris
text: everywhere. No Batman. A moment of dead quiet.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Finally.
text: Then Two-Face's smirk vanishes.
speaker_heading: THUG
dialog: It can't be.
speaker_heading: 370 REVERSE ANGLE 370
text: A shape rises, phoenix-like, out of the flames. The
text: figure moves forward.
text: 371 BATMAN - CLOSE. As his cape parts over his face. 371
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: He lifts his arms, the cape splitting down the center,
text: reverting to it's original form, arms going wide to
text: familiar wings.
text: The Bat heads towards Two-Face and his men.
scene_heading: 372 TWO-FACE - CLOSE. Consumed with rage. 372
text: He grabs a section of the wall's support scaffolding
text: and begins to wrench it free with crazed fury.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Why won't you just die?!
text: In a final rage of maniacal fury, Harvey wrenches the
text: scaffolding free. It's ancient supports gone...
speaker_heading: 373 THE CEILING 373
text: begins to crack and fall, debris pouring in at an ever
text: more furious pace.
text: BATMAN is suddenly doused in a rain of rock and sand.
speaker_heading: 374 THE TUNNEL 374
text: between Harvey and Batman is obstructed by tons of
text: falling metal and plaster and sand. TWO-FACE stands as
text: the ceiling falls all around him.
text: 375 BATMAN is driven down by a storm of wreckage. 375
text: 376 TWO-FACE can barely contain his joy. Plaster and rubble 376
text: fall ever more furiously.
text: 377 BATMAN stumbles as the ground beneath him suddenly gives, 377
text: sucking him into a quickly filling pit of sand and tile.
text: He reaches for his utility belt but its too late.
text: 378 BATMAN is nearly buried, sand coming up over his mouth, 378
text: his eyes, until finally he is gone.
text: 379 TWO-FACE stands watching, eyes full of childish delight. 379
text: The floor in front of him begins to give way, running
text: with deep cracks.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Boys, let's go have us a party.
dialog: (turning)
dialog: Anybody else feel like donuts?
text: Harvey and his men head away, up out of the tunnels.
text: 380 THE SAND PIT - CLOSE. Still. No motion. 380
text: A gloved hand breaks the surface, clutching a Batarang. A
text: weak flip of the wrist.
dialog: The Batarang hist the sand.
text: The hand goes limp. A beat. Another. Suddenly...
text: A GREEN GLOVED HAND - CLOSE. Grabs Batman's hand.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Dick hangs on a wire above Batman in an aerialist's
text: maneuver. He secures his grip and pulls.
scene_heading: DICK - CLOSE. Straining.
text: Suddenly, Batman's face breaks the sand.
text: Dick uses the leverage of his body on the rope to pull
text: harder. Batman begins to rise. Free.
text: The two face each other. Hands still clasped.
scene_heading: 381 INT. BATCAVE - LATER 381
text: Bruce sits in his robe being bandaged by Alfred. Dick is
dialog: pacing.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What the hell did you think you were
dialog: doing?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You have a real gratitude problem.
dialog: You know that, Bruce? I need a name.
dialog: Batboy? The Dark Earl? What's a good
dialog: side kick name?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How about Richard Grayson, college
dialog: student?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: ...I missed Two-Face by a heartbeat.
dialog: When we catch him, you gotta let me
dialog: kill him!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We don't kill. Killing is what damns
dialog: you. It-. What am I talking about?
dialog: This conversation is over. You're
dialog: going away to school.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I saved your life. You owe me. So
dialog: either you let me be your partner or
dialog: I'm going after Harvey on my own.
text: And with that Dick turns and storms out of the Batcave.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's starting all over again,
text: Alfred. Another boy lost to rage.
dialog: And it's my fault. If Harvey hadn't
dialog: come gunning for me at the
dialog: circus...His family...
text: Bruce glances at Gotham Times, of Headline- "Bat More
dialog: Harm Than Good?"
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Maybe they're right.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Which `they' might that be, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Jack Napier's dead. My parents are
dialog: avenged. The Wayne Foundation
dialog: contributes a small fortune to
dialog: police and crime prevention
dialog: programs.
text: Bruce touches a cowl resting on the control panel.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Why do I keep doing this?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Why, indeed?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Could I let Batman go? For Dick. For
dialog: me. Could I leave the shadows? Have
dialog: a life. Friends. Family...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Dr. Meridian...
text: Bruce touches his lips, the spot Chase kissed Batman.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (pained)
dialog: She's the first woman in a long time
dialog: that's... No. She's the first woman
dialog: ever. And she loves Batman. Not
dialog: Bruce Wayne. If I let go of Batman
dialog: I'll lose her.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps. Perhaps not. Why not ask
dialog: the lady?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How? As Batman, knowing she wants
dialog: me? Or as Bruce Wayne and hope...?
text: Bruce reaches to the phone. Hits an autodial key.
text: (OVER) TONES as the phone begins to dial.
speaker_heading: PHONE (CHASE)
dialog: Hello?..Hello?..Who is this?
text: He disconnects the phone.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Who am I Alfred? I don't think I
dialog: know anymore.
scene_heading: 382 INT. CHASE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT 382
text: Dark. Moonlight through curtains. Night SOUNDS.
text: Chase lays asleep in bed. A shadow crosses her face. She
text: stirs.
speaker_heading: REVERSE ANGLE
text: At the french doors to her bedroom stands a familiar
text: silhouette. Batman.
text: Chase rises, moves across the room, the pale light
text: catching her white nightgown. She pulls the doors wide.
text: Chase faces him, bodies close. She reaches up, touches
text: his mask. Kisses him. His cape WHIPS around her.
text: THE KISS - CLOSE. Passionate. Sustained. Chase pulls away.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I'm sorry.
dialog: (sorry)
dialog: I can't believe it. I've imagined
dialog: this moment since I first saw you.
dialog: (touching his glove)
dialog: Your hands.
dialog: (touching his mask)
dialog: Your face.
dialog: (touching his chest)
dialog: Your body.
text: She turns, walks across the room.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: And now I have you and....
dialog: (shaking her head)
dialog: Guess a girl has to grow up
dialog: sometime.
text: She comes back to him, touches his cheek.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: I've met someone. He's not...you.
dialog: But... I hope you can understand.
text: He sees now that over her desk, her Batman's memorabilia
text: has been replaced by photos and files on Bruce Wayne.
text: BATMAN - CLOSE. Smiles.
text: Then he's over the balcony and gone, a shadow on the wing
text: in the dead of night.
scene_heading: 383 INT. CLAW ISLAND CONTROL CENTER - DAY 383
text: On his throne, in his sphere, electronically getting more
text: brilliant every second, Edward fills all his screens with
text: Chase's image from the party.
text: HIS BRAIN - CLOSE. Rivulets of neural energy ripple and
text: dance as his brain grows under his magenta hair.
text: Suddenly Two-Face gets him by the throat.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You know, Ed, we woke up this
dialog: morning, we just knew we were gonna
text: kill something. The Bat got away.
dialog: Looks like it's gonna be you.
text: Two-Face draws his gun with his free hand. Trains it on
text: Riddler's head. By the look in his eyes, he's serious.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Why do we need you? You only come
dialog: between us. We can be the smartest
dialog: person in Gotham City. We want the
dialog: empire for ourselves. Time's up,
text: laughing boy.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Kill me? Well, alright. Go ahead.
dialog: Take the empire. All yours.
dialog: (grabbing his own head)
dialog: Hell, Harv, old pals. I'll kill me
dialog: for you.
text: Riddler grabs his hair, starts SLAMMING his own head into
text: the desk-top.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Too...bad...about...Batman.
text: Harvey grabs his head. Stops him.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What about Batman?
text: Riddler smooths his hair.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: What if you could know a man's mind?
dialog: Would you not then own that man?
text: Riddler hits a switch. Suddenly his screens fill with the
text: image of Bruce stepping into the simulation at the party.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A few dozen extra IQ points and my
dialog: little invention learned a new
dialog: trick. It does more than drain your
dialog: brain. It makes a map of your mind.
text: The screens change, now showing a turning schematic of a
text: brain, alive with neural lightning.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Would you like to see what my old
text: friend Bruce has in his head.
text: 384 Riddler hits a switch. Another image pulls free from the 384
text: schematic brain. A trapped bat. Fierce. Monstrous. The
text: very picture of imagined evil, made live. Bruce's
dialog: nightmare.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Riddle me this, what kind of man has
dialog: bats on the brain?
text: Two-Face stares at him.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Go ahead. You can say it.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're a genius.
text: The tow begin to LAUGH.
scene_heading: 385 CLOSE ON BAT 385
text: It's a fake one on top of a pole.
scene_heading: 386 CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL 386
text: Group of YOUNG KIDS in Halloween costumes running through
scene_heading: GOTHAM CEMETERY - DUSK
text: Two gravestones alone on a hill under a tree.
text: The kids pass Bruce who is visiting his family's graves.
speaker_heading: KIDS
dialog: Happy Halloween.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Happy Halloween.
text: Bruce lays two roses on Thomas and Martha Wayne's graves.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: ...Tonight it ends.
speaker_heading: 387 DICK (OVER) 387
dialog: What the hell do you mean, it ends?
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE
text: Bruce and Dick are in mid-conversation.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: From this day on, Batman is no more.
text: Bruce hits a switch. The machines in the cave go dark.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You can't-.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Dick, let go. Revenge will eat you
dialog: alive. Trust me. I know.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: But what about all the good we can
dialog: do? There are monsters out there.
dialog: Gotham needs us.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: And when you finally get Two-Face?
text: Dick looks away.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Exactly. And once you'd killed him
dialog: you'd be lost. Like me.
dialog: (off the cave)
dialog: All this has to be a choice.
dialog: Otherwise...it's a curse.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Bruce, you can't.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Chase is coming for dinner. Why
dialog: don't you join us.
text: And with that, Bruce turns, heads up into the house. Dick
text: stands all alone in the still, dark cave.
text: (OVER) A doorbell RINGS.
scene_heading: 388 EXT. WAYNE MANOR 388
text: Alfred opens the doors to the Trick or Treaters we saw
text: earlier. Hands out bags of candy.
scene_heading: 389 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - ACCESS ROAD 389
text: A mysterious van sits parked on the gravel byway.
scene_heading: 390 INT. VAN 390
text: Two-Face, Riddler, and men sit watching the manor.
text: 391 RIDDLER - POV. A taxi pulls up. Chase emerges as the Trick 391
dialog: or Treaters leave.
speaker_heading: 392 RIDDLER 392
dialog: And today not even my birthday.
text: Two-Face couldn't care less about Chase. He tosses his
text: 393 coin. HOLD ON the spinning faces as (OVER) we hear... 393
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: Bruce, Batman. Bruce, Batman.
scene_heading: 394 INT. COSTUME VAULT, BATCAVE - NIGHT 394
text: Opens with a HISS. Dick passes the Batman costumes until
text: he comes to a standing figure different from the rest.
text: His Robin costume. He packs to leave forever.
scene_heading: 395 EXT. WAYNE ESTATE 395
text: Dick rides his motorcycle through the protective hologram
text: of the trees, heading away into the dark night.
scene_heading: 396 INT. WAYNE MANOR - DINING ALCOVE - NIGHT 396
text: Intensely romantic. Filled with live roses, Alfred leaves
text: having served an intimate candlelight dinner to Bruce and
dialog: Chase.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's something I want to talk
dialog: with you about. It's...Well, we..
dialog: I...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Okay, tiger, take it slow. You going
dialog: to give me your pin or something?
text: Bruce LAUGHS. He's obviously having trouble.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Let me go first, okay? I think I've
dialog: found something. About your dreams.
dialog: I pulled the files on your parents'
dialog: murders. There was a missing diary,
dialog: Bruce. Alfred told the police your
dialog: father always kept it on his desk.
dialog: But the day after the murders, it
dialog: was gone. Maybe that's the book
dialog: you're-
text: But Bruce isn't listening. He's pressing his eyes. Hard.
text: 397 BRUCE - POV. A series of images. The coffins. The book. The 397
text: run through the stormy night. The fall. The bat.
speaker_heading: 398 CHASE 398
dialog: What is it? What's wrong?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Flashes. Images. Of that night.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Your memories are repressed. They're
dialog: trying to break through. Relax. Try
dialog: to remember-.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't want to remember!
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Stop fighting.
text: A long beat. Then Bruce Wayne surrenders, leans back.
text: Closes his eyes. Remembers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My parents are laid out in the
text: library. Their skin smells like
dialog: talcum powder. I'm so small. My
text: father's diary is on his desk like
dialog: always. I'm opening the book.
dialog: Reading. I'm running out into the
dialog: storm. The book is in my hands. I
dialog: can't hear my screams over the rain.
dialog: I'm falling...
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What does it say? What hurts so
dialog: much, Bruce? What does the book say?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't-.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You do know. Try.
text: Bruce opens his eyes. Clear. He remembers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The last entry read, Bruce insists
dialog: on seeing a movie tonight.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Bruce insists. I made them go out. I
dialog: made them take me to the movie. To
dialog: that theater...
dialog: (finally)
dialog: It was my fault. I killed them.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Oh God, Bruce, you were a child. You
dialog: weren't responsible.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (to himself)
dialog: ...Not the bat?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I always thought it was the bat that
dialog: scared me that night that changed
dialog: my life. But it wasn't. The real
dialog: fear was hiding underneath: what I
dialog: read in the journal, that my parents'
dialog: deaths were my fault. That's what I
dialog: couldn't remember. That's the crime
dialog: I've been paying for all these
dialog: years.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: What are you talking about?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Chase. There's something I need to
dialog: tell you--
text: (OVER) The doorbell RINGS.
speaker_heading: 399 FRONT DOOR 399
text: Alfred peers out to a sea of Halloween Masks.
speaker_heading: LITTLE VOICE
dialog: Trick or Treat?
text: Alfred grabs his candy bags as he opens the door to...
dialog: 400 The Riddler, Two-Face and the Thugs. 400
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Trick.
text: He CRACKS Alfred on the head with his cane. Down he goes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (to his thugs)
dialog: Get the girl.
scene_heading: 401 INT. DINING ALCOVE 401
scene_heading: (OVER) A COMMOTION.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What the hell?
text: Thugs appear at both doorways.
text: Bruce moves fast as he grabs a silver serving tray, flips
text: it into one of the screaming Thugs' faces, swings the
text: platter into the other's head. Two down.
text: Bruce grabs Chase's hand and they're out the door, racing
text: fast, several more henchmen in close pursuit.
speaker_heading: 402 MEANWHILE 402
text: The Riddler uses the scanner in the head of his cane to
text: locate and open the secret door to the Batcave.
scene_heading: 403 INT. HALLWAY 403
text: Bruce and Chase race towards the stairway. Bruce pulls
text: standing display suits of armor to the floor as he goes,
text: blocking the Thugs' way.
scene_heading: 404 INT. BAT CAVE 404
text: Riddler has found heaven. From his pouch he produces tiny
text: green bombs shaped like bats. He winds one up, its head
text: SCREECHING with each twist of the neck, lets it fly.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: What's that I hear?
text: 405 Like a tiny bat, the first bomb flies into the video 405
text: wall. A tremendous EXPLOSION.
speaker_heading: 406 RIDDLER 406
dialog: Why it must be the fat lady getting
text: ready to sing.
text: 407 The next bat-bomb flaps into the costume vault. BLOWS 407
text: 408 it completely. The crime lab EXPLODES next. 408
text: 409 The Riddler winds a bunch of bat-bombs now, lets them 409
text: fly. The tiny green bats sail high forming a giant
text: question mark in mid-air before plummeting suddenly in
text: formation down into the cockpit of the Batmobile.
speaker_heading: 410 RIDDLER 410
dialog: (Jack's favorite line)
dialog: Gonna have a hot time in the old
dialog: town tonight.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Who used to say that? Somebody
dialog: always used to say that.
scene_heading: 411 The car EXPLODES. 411
scene_heading: 412 INT. WAYNE MANOR - GRAND STAIRCASE 412
text: Bruce and Chase flee up the giant staircase, the Thugs a
text: step behind. One two-toned bad-guy leaps forward, gets a
text: fistful of Chase's dress. She goes down. Looks like she's
text: done for. At the last moment, Chase gives a mighty kick
text: and the Thug topples backwards, down the stairs.
text: Bruce is holding off a couple more, closing near the top
text: step. He spins, a powerful roundhouse clocking one in the
text: head, sending him backwards down the stairs.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Go!
text: Chase moves behind him, up to the landing, turns to see
text: Bruce fell another with a spinning back kick, a third
text: with a flying back-fist.
text: Bruce and Chase race to the top of the stairs.
text: 413 TWO-FACE stands on the floor below. Just the moment he's
dialog: been waiting for.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: See ya.
text: He SHOOTS. The bullet grazes Bruce's head. He falls down
text: the grand staircase.
text: CHASE SCREAMS as Thugs grab her.
text: BRUCE hits the floor. Hard. No movement. None at all.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Bruce, you sure know how to throw a
dialog: party.
text: Two-Face stands over the prostrate form. Draws his gun. SLAMS
text: in a new clip of ammo.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER (OVER)
dialog: Sheath your weapon my impetuous
dialog: cohort.
text: 414 Riddler has appeared from the Batcave. 414
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We want to dust him. We truly want
dialog: to dust him bad.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh yes, and certainly _WE_ will!
text: Riddler walks over to the unconscious Wayne. Kneels.
text: Looks at him, tender, like a lover. Caresses his face.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: My poor sweet hero.
text: He stands, kicks him hard in the rib cage. Bones CRACK.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: We'll kill him alright. But first...
dialog: (calling)
dialog: Boys.
text: With that, the Thugs drag out a freshly bound Chase.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Bruce!
text: Riddler drops an envelope (RIDDLE #4) on Bruce.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: ...We're going to make him suffer.
scene_heading: 415 INT. BATCAVE 415
text: Sputtering. Burning.
scene_heading: 416 THE COSTUME VAULT 416
text: BATSUIT - CLOSE. Surrounded by licking flames, the Bat
text: emblem begins to melt.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
scene_heading: 417 BRUCE'S EYE - CLOSE 417
speaker_heading: 418 ZOOM IN 418
text: as we fall again into a dark hole, the Monarch Bat flying
text: straight at the CAMERA, his red eye filling the SCREEN.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO
scene_heading: 419 BRUCE'S EYE - CLOSE 419
speaker_heading: WIDER
scene_heading: 420 INT. BRUCE'S BEDROOM - MORNING 420
text: Bruce is in bed, head bandaged. Alfred is walking a
text: doctor to the door.
speaker_heading: DOCTOR
text: The injuries are relatively minor.
dialog: The shot did cause a concussion.
dialog: Watch for headaches. Memory lapses.
dialog: Odd behavior. I'll check back in a
dialog: few days.
text: Alfred ushers him out, returns to Bruce's bedside.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How are you feeling, young man?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not that young. It's been a long
dialog: time since you've called me that.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Old habits die hard. Are you
dialog: alright?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: As well as can be expected, I guess.
dialog: Give me the bad news.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
text: Dick has run away. They have taken
dialog: Dr. Meridian. And I'm afraid they
dialog: found the cave, sir. It's been
dialog: destroyed.
text: Bruce looks up at Alfred, eyes narrow, puzzled.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The case? What cave?
scene_heading: 421 EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS ROOFTOP 421
text: The Batsignal lights the sky. Gordon paces.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Where is he?
text: A concerned DEPUTY emerges onto the roof.
speaker_heading: DEPUTY
dialog: The Mayor's called again.
dialog: (off the signal)
dialog: He's not going to show. Maybe he's
dialog: hurt sir. Maybe he's--.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: No!
dialog: (not so sure)
dialog: ...No.
scene_heading: 422 INT. BATCAVE 422
text: Or what's left of it. Melted ruin and rubble. Bruce
text: stands with a worried Alfred, surveying the landscape.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: (disbelieving)
dialog: I'm Batman? I remember my life as
dialog: Bruce Wayne.
dialog: (looking around)
dialog: But all this. It's like the life of
text: a stranger.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Perhaps the fall...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: There's one other thing. I feel..
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Afraid.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Bruce. Son. Listen to me. You are a
dialog: kind man. A strong man. But in truth
dialog: you are not the most sane man.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...A bat.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I remember a bat. A monster. A
dialog: demon. Chasing me.
dialog: (child's terror)
dialog: Oh my God, Alfred.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No demons, son.
dialog: (touching his head)
dialog: Your monsters are here. Until you
dialog: fact that, I fear you will spend
dialog: your life fleeing them.
scene_heading: 423 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 423
text: Riddler sits on his throne, absorbing pulses of neural
text: energy, his head growing.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: It's happy time Gotham. Have you
dialog: hugged your little boxes today?
dialog: (singing)
dialog: I'm in heaven. I'm in heaven with a
dialog: girl like you.
speaker_heading: 424 WIDER 424
text: Chase has been chained to the floor of his throne.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Batman will come for me.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: (singing)
dialog: Someday my bat will come. Some day
dialog: my bat will come.
dialog: (suddenly lethal)
dialog: I'm counting on it.
text: He puts his face close to Chase's.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You're frying your brain.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Nap time gorgeous.
text: The Riddler draws a hypo filled with green liquid. He
text: plunges it into her neck as she passes out.
scene_heading: 425 INT. BATCAVE 425
text: Bruce stands before a dark, rocky mouth. Through this
text: passage, the cave as it once was, sweating granite, a
text: shifting world of shadow.
text: Bruce steps inside.
scene_heading: 426 INT. INNER BATCAVE 426
text: FAVOR BRUCE as he walks deeper into the darkness. The
text: walls around him undulate, as if covered in water.
text: 427 WALLS - CLOSER. The movement isn't water at all. It's the 427
text: restless shrugging of bats. Thousands of bats.
text: 428 Bruce presses on. Sweat beads on his face. 428
text: Ahead, a diffusion of moonlight illuminates a curving
text: rock chamber, bats here too bringing the walls to life.
text: Bruce moves into the moonlight. Looks up.
text: 429 BRUCE - POV. A narrow chute. The fall he took as a child. 429
text: He kneels, there on the floor, worn by years of weather,
text: a single book. A diary.
text: Bruce kneels, touches the leather cover, fingers
text: lingering for a moment on his father's embossment, before
text: he turns yellowed pages to the last entry. Painfully, by
text: moonlight, he reads.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (OVER)
dialog: (dreaded confirmation)
text: Bruce insists on seeing a movie
dialog: tonight...
text: He pauses, gathers himself. He continues.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (OVER)
dialog: But Martha and I have our hearts set
dialog: on Zorro, so Bruce's cartoon will
dialog: have to wait until next week.
text: Bruce stares at the book in disbelief. Then he looks up
text: at the moonlight, tears streaming down his face.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Not my fault. It wasn't my fault.
text: 430 Suddenly, in the darkness ahead, a dark shape moves, head 430
text: rising, slits opening to reveal two blood red eyes.
text: The giant monarch bat spreads its wings, huge, as it
text: rises, suddenly airborne, rushing toward him.
text: 431 BRUCE - CLOSE. And terrified. He turns to run. The bat's 431
text: flapping wings BEAT like drums, closing fast.
text: Bruce holds his ground. Resolved. He turns and faces the
text: monster, SCREECHING towards him, glistening fangs barely
text: inches from his face.
text: Something remarkable happens. The bat holds its
text: position, stares into Bruce's eyes, wings spreading wide.
text: A beat. Then Bruce raises his arms, a living mirror. The
text: two stand facing each other, man and bat. In the moon-
text: light on the wall, their shadows begin to blend, to
text: merge, becoming one _SHIMMERING WHITE LIGHT!_
scene_heading: 432 INT. BATCAVE 432
text: The mouth of the inner cave. A sudden SCREAMING DIN as a
text: storm of bats explode into the cave, a shooting column of
text: life and there, from within, steps a man.
speaker_heading: 433 REVERSE ANGLE 433
text: ALFRED stands at the entrance.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Master, Bruce?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...Batman, Alfred. I'm Batman.
scene_heading: 434 EXT. NIGHT SKY 434
text: The Batsignal shines. Suddenly the air above the familiar
text: circle begins to shimmer and glow, becoming...
text: A giant green question mark. The Batsignal itself is now
text: just the small period at the symbol's bottom.
scene_heading: 435 INT. BATCAVE - NIGHT 435
text: Bruce stands at the ruined control platform. Riddles are
text: spread before him. Including the most recent.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: All the answers are numbers.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: But 1, 3, 1, 8, & 5. What do they mean?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What do maniacs always want?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Recognition, of course.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Precisely. So this number is
text: probably some kind of calling card.
text: Bruce stares at the numbers. Adds them: 18. Squares them:
text: 1916425. No luck. Starts again, separating them: 13/18/5.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Letters in the alphabet.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Of course. 13 is M....MRE.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How about, MR. E.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mystery.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: And another name for Mystery?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Enigma.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Exactly. Mr. E. Mister Edward Nygma.
scene_heading: 436 INT. STONE STAIRCASE 436
text: Bruce leads Alfred through a secret stairway.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good thing Mr. E. didn't know about
text: the cave under the cave.
scene_heading: 437 INT. SUBTERRANEAN CAVE 437
text: Dark, jagged, surrounded by water. Here, the Batwing and
dialog: Batboat are stored.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What now sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Claw Island. Nygma's headquarters.
dialog: I'm sure that's where they're
dialog: keeping Chase.
dialog: (realizing)
dialog: Are all the Batsuits destroyed?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: All except the prototype with the
dialog: sonar modifications you so
dialog: disapprove of. But it hasn't yet
dialog: been tested.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Tonight's a good night.
text: 438 CLOSE ON - Batman's fist being shoved into a new gauntlet. 438
text: 439 CLOSE ON - Batman's new boot snapping shut. 439
text: 440 CLOSE ON - the improved Utility Belt buckling on firmly. 440
text: 441 CLOSE ON - the new cowl sliding down over Batman's head. 441
scene_heading: 442 PULL BACK TO REVEAL 442
text: The Batman - a darker enemy to fear.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What do you suggest, Alfred. By see or by air?
speaker_heading: DICK (OVER)
dialog: Why not both?
text: A figure steps out of the shadows. Dick.
text: The cape is now black, yellow on the inside only. A red
text: armored vest compliments green tights with knee armor, a
text: utility belt and flexible black boots.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Dick... Where did you get that suit?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I...um..took the liberty, sir.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I thought you could use a friend.
text: Bruce stares at him a beat.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Not a friend.
text: He extends his hand.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: A partner.
text: The Dynamic Duo clasp hands.
scene_heading: 443 EXT. WAYNE MANOR - TENNIS COURT - NIGHT 443
text: Fast clouds. Bowing trees.
text: Suddenly, the entire tennis court slides away.
text: The Batwing rises into the night sky.
scene_heading: 444 EXT. STORM DRAIN 444
text: The Batboat hits the water.
scene_heading: 445 EXT. ROOFTOP OF POLICE HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT 445
text: Commissioner Gordon and his deputy, standing vigil under
text: the false moon of the Batsignal.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: (finally)
dialog: He's not coming. Shut it down.
text: The Deputy reaches for the power switch. Suddenly, a ROAR
text: cuts the night.
scene_heading: 446 ANGLE UP TO 446
text: The Batsignal. The ROAR grows louder. Light and shadow
text: dance, for a second it seems the Batsignal itself is
text: flying toward us. Suddenly --
text: The Batwing bursts _through_ the signal.
text: 447 The dark plane BUZZES Police Headquarters, dipping a wing 447
dialog: to Gordon.
text: 448 A triumphant Gordon waves Batman onward. 448
scene_heading: 449 INT. COCKPIT 449
text: Working the controls, Batman is back.
scene_heading: 450 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 450
text: Still, night waters.
text: Suddenly, the Batboat, running silent and dark, cuts
text: across the harbor.
text: 451 Dick is at the helm, wearing night-vision goggles. 451
text: 452 DICK'S POV -- INFRA-RED. Claw Island looms ahead. 452
scene_heading: 453 SEARCHLIGHTS 453
text: atop the island headquarters pop on, one by one, flooding
text: the water with light.
scene_heading: 454 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT 454
text: The Riddler and Two-Face stand clutching controls on
text: opposite sides of a holographically generated game of
dialog: Battleship.
text: Each is firing tiny blips at the small dot crossing the
text: floating screen.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A-14.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Miss.
scene_heading: 455 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 455
text: A mortar EXPLODES aft of the Batboat, shooting a WATER
text: SPOUT high in the sky.
scene_heading: 456 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT 456
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: B-12.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A miss. And my favorite vitamin, I
dialog: might add.
scene_heading: 457 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR 457
text: Another EXPLOSION to stern.
text: Dick is thrown as a third shell hits the Batboat. The
text: craft EXPLODES.
scene_heading: 458 INT. NYGMATECH - RECREATION ROOM 458
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: A hit.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You sunk my battleship.
scene_heading: 459 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 459
text: Dick slips a re-breather into his mouth. Dives
text: underwater, starts to swim towards Claw Island.
speaker_heading: 460 UNDERWATER 460
text: A SPEAR shoots past leaving a trail of bubbles. Another.
scene_heading: 461 A HIDDEN BUNKER 461
text: issues a stream of armed frogmen.
scene_heading: 462 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 462
text: The BATWING soars over the water.
scene_heading: 463 INT. BATWING COCKPIT 463
scene_heading: INFRA-RED SCREEN - CLOSE
text: A Dick blip, besieged underwater by frogmen blips.
scene_heading: 464 EXT. CLAW ISLAND - NIGHT 464
text: A laser shoots from the top of the stronghold, neatly
text: 465 severing one of the Batwing's wings. 465
scene_heading: 466 EXT. BATWING - GOTHAM HARBOR - NIGHT 466
text: The Batwing dives straight into the river.
scene_heading: 467 INT. COCKPIT 467
scene_heading: BATMAN - POV - THROUGH THE WINDSCREEN. The water comes up
text: fast, a rushing EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: 468 EXT. GOTHAM HARBOR - UNDERWATER 468
text: Dark panels shift, sealing wheel hubs, growing sleek fins
text: as the Batwing morphs now into the Batsub.
speaker_heading: 469 UNDERWATER 469
text: Two frogmen hold Dick by arms and legs as several more
text: swim towards him with exposed knives.
speaker_heading: 470 THE BATSUB 470
text: BLASTS over an underwater reef.
text: 471 A TORPEDO TUBE - CLOSE. FIRES a dark rocket towards the 471
text: frogmen at blinding speed.
scene_heading: 472 A FROGMAN - CLOSE. Spins. 472
text: 473 FROGMAN'S POV - THROUGH MASK. The torpedo racing towards 473
text: him unfurls to reveal...Batman.
text: 474 BATMAN'S FIST smashes the glass of the Frogman's mask. 474
text: 475 THE THUG rises in a mass of bubbles. 475
text: 476 DICK uses the distraction and kicks free. Batman and Dick 476
text: take on the frogmen, hand to hand.
scene_heading: 477 EXT. CLAW ISLAND SHORE - NIGHT 477
text: Batman and Dick break the surface. Dick discards his re-
text: breather. Climbs onto the shore.
speaker_heading: DICK
text: Holy rusted metal, Batman.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: What?
text: Dick takes a few steps forward, kneels.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: (off the rusted floor)
text: The ground. It's metal and its full
dialog: of holes. You know. Holey.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: This place was a refueling station
dialog: for subs during the war...
text: Just as Batman starts to climb out of the water (OVER) a
text: horrendous CRUNCHING as Dick begins to rise.
speaker_heading: 478 WIDER 478
text: The island surface is actually the top of a tremendous
text: metal sphere balanced atop an enormous cylindrical oil
text: tank, rising, now, fast out of the water.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Dick.
text: 479 Batman throws a Batarang but it glances off the side of 479
dialog: the sphere.
speaker_heading: 480 WIDER 480
text: Batman stands staring up at Dick, who stands alone atop
text: the metal sphere now near five stories high.
text: No way up. Batman spots a rusting access panel in the
text: giant support cylinder. He RIPS it off and climbs inside.
scene_heading: 481 EXT. DOME 481
text: Dick stands looking down at the ocean.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE (OVER)
dialog: The Bat or the Bird. We couldn't
dialog: decide who got to kill who.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Or is it whom?
text: Dick spins. Two-Face has emerged from a hatch atop the
text: dome. He stands smiling at Dick, a knife in his hands.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: We flipped for it. We got you.
text: Two-Face's leap is savage, catching Dick by the throat.
speaker_heading: 482 WIDER 482
text: The two slide down the sloping edge of the dome, their
text: descent stopped by a narrow, rusting metal lip.
text: Two-Face SMASHES Dick's head into the side of the dome.
dialog: Once. Twice. Three times.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: What's wrong, circus-boy? No mommy
dialog: and daddy to save you?
text: Two-Face raises his blade over the dazed Dick. Brings it
dialog: down fast.
text: Dick rolls clear, the blade wedging into the rusted metal
text: surface. All the time Dick needs. He back-flips erect,
text: kicks Two-Face hard in the head.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For my mother.
text: A flying front kick to the chin.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For my father.
text: A spinning back kick knocking him to his knees.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For Chris.
text: Dick hauls off and smashes him in the face.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: For me.
text: The punch sends Two-Face rolling down the side of the
text: dome, fingers raking sloping steel, finding no purchase.
text: 483 At the last second, Two-Face grabs a small metal dimple 483
text: on the belly of the dome's curve, hanging on for dear
text: life, feet kicking wildly over the abyss.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
text: The scales are tipped. The blindfold
text: torn from the lady's eyes. Justice
dialog: will be served.
text: The rusting metal bulge starts to tear and break.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: You're a man after my own heart,
dialog: son.
text: The metal breaks free.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: (grinning)
dialog: See you in hell.
text: Two-Face's hands tear through the rust. He falls.
text: 484 DICK'S HAND grabs him.
speaker_heading: WIDER
text: Dick hoists him to safety.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: No. I'd rather see you in jail.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: The Bat's taught you well. Noble.
text: Two-Face spins, a gun suddenly in his hand, pressing now
text: into the flesh between Dick's eyes.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: A mistake. But definitely noble.
text: Two-Face COCKS the trigger.
scene_heading: 485 INT. CYLINDER 485
text: Immense. Empty. Just the CRASHING surf and rocks below.
text: Batman looks up. The ceiling is...
text: 486 A GIANT STEEL GRATE flush with the sides of the cylinder. 486
text: Batman loads a Batarang into his launcher. FIRES.
text: 487 THE BATARANG flies high, secures purchase on the grate. 487
text: 488 BATMAN attaches the cable to the winch on his belt. 488
text: Begins rising fast.
scene_heading: 489 THE GRATE BOLTS 489
text: EXPLODE, causing the giant grate to fall towards Batman.
text: 490 BATMAN twirls on the rope so he is rising upside down, 490
text: his feet racing towards the plummeting grate. He hits a
text: switch on his utility belt-
speaker_heading: 491 THRUSTERS 491
text: on his new Batsuit ROCKET him feet first towards the
text: descending grate.
text: 492 IMPACT! The grate flips like a pie pan. Batman lets go of 492
text: the wire, cutting his thrusters and tumbling in mid-air
text: so his hands now extend before him. He grabs one of the
text: steel girders in the darkness overhead.
text: 493 Batman hangs, watching the now dislodged grate fall to 493
text: the watery depth below. A beat. He hoists himself onto a
dialog: steel platform to face...
scene_heading: 494 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 494
text: The Riddler sits across the room in his throne, a huge
text: antenna shooting up into the night sky behind him through
text: a round hole in the dome. A large ring of Green Neon
text: encircles him, feeding him more and more brain power.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Welcome to my parlor said the
dialog: Riddler to the Bat. How's tricks?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No more tricks, Edward. Release
dialog: Chase and Dick. This is between you
dialog: and me.
text: Two-Face steps from behind The Riddler.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: And me and me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: (off the antenna)
dialog: ...Of course. The Box does more
dialog: than enhance neural energy. You've
text: been sucking Gotham's brainwaves.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: And now it's new. Improved. Better
dialog: than ever.
text: 495 SCREENS - CLOSE - Endless schematics of flickering brains. 495
speaker_heading: 496 BATMAN 496
dialog: ...The jolt I felt in the beam at
dialog: your party.
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: You've devised a way to map the
dialog: human brain. To read men's minds.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh, Bruce, you are clever. How
dialog: fitting that numbers lead you to me.
dialog: For numbers will crown me king. My
dialog: Box will sit on countless TV's
dialog: around the globe, mapping brains,
dialog: giving me credit card numbers. Bank
dialog: codes. Safe combinations. Numbers of
dialog: infidelities. Of crimes. Of lies
dialog: told. No secret is safe from my
dialog: watchful electronic eye. I will
dialog: rule the planet. For if knowledge is
dialog: power then tremble world, Edward
dialog: Nygma has become a God.
dialog: (to Harvey)
dialog: Was that over the top? I can never
dialog: tell...
dialog: (to Batman)
dialog: By the way, B-man, I got _your_
dialog: number.
text: 497 SCREENS - CLOSE form a towering picture of Batman. 497
text: 498 OTHER SCREENS - CLOSE form a towering picture of Bruce. 498
text: 499 The images collide, forming a half Bruce, half Batman. 499
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: I've seen your mind. Yours is the
dialog: greatest Riddle of all. Can Bruce
dialog: Wayne and Batman ever truly coexist?
dialog: Stop me if I'm wrong here.
text: Batman remains stoic, but The Riddler is right on.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: So let's help you decide, once and
dialog: for all, who you really are. Behind
dialog: Curtain #1...
text: A curtain rises: Chase in a cylinder, bound unconscious.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
text: The captivating Dr. Chase Meridian.
dialog: Love of Bruce Wayne's life. Behind
dialog: curtain #2...
text: Another curtain reveals: Dick in similar peril.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Batman's one and only partner.
dialog: (a beat)
dialog: Below, my personal favorite...
speaker_heading: 500 TRAP DOORS 500
text: beneath Chase and Dick open wide. ANGLE DOWN to the
text: jagged rocks and crashing surf below.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: A watery grave!
text: 501 A BUTTON - CLOSE. Shaped like a glowing green skull. 501
speaker_heading: 502 RIDDLER 502
dialog: A simple touch and five seconds
dialog: later these two day players are so
text: much gull feed on the rocks below.
dialog: Not enough time to save them both.
dialog: So who will it be? Bruce's love?
dialog: Batman's partner? You decide. Is
dialog: this fun or what?
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Edward, you've become a monster.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: You flatter me. No monster. Just The
dialog: Riddler, and here's yours. What is
dialog: without taste or sound, all around,
dialog: but can't be found? On your mark,
dialog: get set...
text: The Riddler reaches for the button. Batman steps forward.
text: 503 ANGLE from the water below. 503
text: The floor between where Batman stands and the Riddler's
text: throne platform is translucent. A hologram masking a
text: tremendous gap. Batman is about to step into an abyss.
text: 504 Batman stops short. Looks up at Riddler. 504
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Death.
dialog: (louder)
dialog: Death. Without taste, sound and all
dialog: around us.
dialog: (getting it)
dialog: Because there is no way for me to
dialog: save them or myself. This is one
text: giant death trap.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Excellent. See. Who says a guy in a
dialog: rubber suit can't be smart? Well,
dialog: it's been grand. Sorry you all have
dialog: to die now.
text: Riddler touches the skull button. (OVER) A SCREECH.
text: Batman looks up.
text: 505 HIGH ABOVE the Riddler's antenna a giant monarch bat 505
text: glides across the night.
scene_heading: 506 THE BAT - CLOSE. 506
scene_heading: 507 BATMAN - CLOSE. No fear. A moment of communion. 507
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Wait. I have a riddle for you.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: For _me_? Really? Tell me.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: I see without seeing. To me,
text: darkness is as clear as daylight.
dialog: What am I?
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Oh please. You're blind as a bat.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Exactly!
text: Batman SLAMS his Utility Belt, releasing a high energy
text: Batarang which he hurls at the Riddler's huge antenna.
scene_heading: 508 THE BATARANG 508
text: SMASHES into the Riddler's antenna. A tremendous
text: EXPLOSION of sparks as the transceiver short circuits.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: No!
text: The room goes pitch black.
text: 509 RIDDLER'S FINGER - CLOSE. Hits the skull button. 509
scene_heading: 510 DICK AND CHASE 510
text: drop, plummet through space.
text: 511 BATMAN - CLOSE. Two metal lids SHUT over Batman's eyes. 511
scene_heading: 512 BATMAN'S POV - INSIDE THE MASK 512
text: Small sonar screens on the back of Batman's eyepieces
text: reveal the phantom floor and the wild criss-cross of
text: interconnected steel beams and the crashing ocean below.
speaker_heading: 513 BATMAN 513
text: throws another Batarang, which lassos a beam overhead,
text: swings forward, grabbing a falling Chase as he passes,
text: depositing her on a steel platform.
scene_heading: 514 BATMAN - POV (SONAR SCREENS). Dick drops to certain death. 514
speaker_heading: 515 BATMAN 515
text: dives towards the sea below as he whips another Batarang
text: 516 around a passing girder. He catches Dick just above the 516
text: rocks precisely as the Batrope pulls taught, using the
text: bat-winch to shoot them back up to the platform.
scene_heading: 517 BATMAN - POV (SONAR SCREENS) 517
text: As he rests Dick on the platform beside Chase. Suddenly
text: his world flares a blinding white.
speaker_heading: 518 TWO-FACE 518
text: stands on the platform before him, a halogen light
text: strapped around his head, blinding Batman's sensors.
text: Two-Face brandishes his gun.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: All those heroics for nothing. No
dialog: more riddles, no more curtains one
text: and two. Just plain old curtains.
text: He COCKS the trigger.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Haven't you forgotten something,
dialog: Harvey? You're always of two minds
dialog: about everything....
text: The handsome side of Harvey's face turns toward them.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: Oh. Emotion is so often the enemy of
dialog: justice. Thank you, Bruce.
text: He takes out his famous coin and flips it. Batman starts
text: to reach for his Utility Belt, to out-smart Two-Face. But
text: as the coin flies high up in the air, it comes down just
text: a hair too far away.
speaker_heading: TWO-FACE
dialog: No!
text: 519 As Two-Face reaches out to catch it, he loses his balance 519
text: and falls to the rocks and angry sea below.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Help Chase. I'll be back.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: (groggy)
dialog: Did Two-Face call him Bruce?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Of course not.
text: 520 Batman starts scaling girders, pulls himself back into... 520
scene_heading: 521 INT. RIDDLER'S CONTROL ROOM 521
text: The lights are still down but the antenna's functioning
text: again, the Riddler in his throne, absorbing pulses of
text: neural energy. Too much. his entire head seems to
text: distort, fluctuating in size and wavering.
speaker_heading: RIDDLER
dialog: Why can't I kill you? Now there's a
dialog: riddle?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Not smart enough. Find a way.
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Too many questions.
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why you and not me?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why me?
dialog: (more juice)
dialog: Why??!!
text: Batman SLAMS the power switch, the throne going dark.
text: EDWARD - CLOSE. Knees drawn to his chest. Pathetic.
scene_heading: WHIMPERING. Mad.
text: Batman looks down, his eyes sad, compassionate.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Poor, Edward. I had to save them
dialog: both. You see, I am Bruce Wayne and
dialog: Batman. Not because I have to be.
dialog: Now because I choose to be.
text: Batman reaches out to Edward. Ed jerks in fear, looks up.
text: 522 EDWARD'S POV - Coming towards him, not Batman, but a 522
text: hideous demonic giant bat.
scene_heading: 523 EDWARD - CLOSE. SCREAMS 523
scene_heading: 524 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 524
text: Another stormy night.
scene_heading: 525 INT. MAXIMUM SECURITY WING 525
text: Dr. Burton walks the corridor with Chase.
speaker_heading: DR. BURTON
dialog: Edward Nygma has been screaming for
dialog: hours that he knows the true
dialog: identity of Batman.
text: They reach Edward's cell.
scene_heading: 526 THEIR POV -- INT. PADDED CELL 526
text: Lit only by the moon. Chase speaks through the small
text: barred set into the heavy door.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Edward...
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: Who is it?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: It's Dr. Meridian. Chase. Do you
dialog: remember me?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: How could I forget?
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Dr. Burton tells me you know who
dialog: Batman is.
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: (giggle, giggle)
dialog: Yesssssss. I know!
text: Chase and Burton look at each other, on edge.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Who is The Batman, Edward?
speaker_heading: EDWARD (O.S.)
dialog: Can't tell if you don't say please.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: You're right, Edward. I didn't mean
dialog: to be impolite. Please.
text: No response. Just GIGGLES.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Edward, please. Who is Batman?
text: A beat. Suddenly a huge silhouette of a bat appears on
text: the padded wall. Into it leaps Edward, the sleeves of his
text: straightjacket madly flapping like the wings of a bat.
speaker_heading: EDWARD
dialog: I AM BATMAAAAAAANN!!!
scene_heading: 527 EXT. ARKHAM ASYLUM - NIGHT 527
text: Chase comes down the front steps to find Alfred waiting
text: with the Rolls, holding the rear door open.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mr. Wayne sent me to pick you up.
scene_heading: 528 INT. ROLLS - MOVING 528
text: Alfred drives out the front gates of Arkham Asylum.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Where's Bruce?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: He asked me to convey his deepest
dialog: apologies, Dr. Meridian. But he
dialog: wanted me to give you this.
text: Alfred hands her a small wicker figure. The dream doll.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: He said to thank you. And to tell
dialog: you he no longer needs it.
text: She notices the Batsignal in the night sky.
speaker_heading: CHASE
dialog: Does it ever end Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: No, Miss. Not in this lifetime.
text: Chase looks out the car window. In the distance, the
text: shape of the bat shimmers against the clouds.
scene_heading: 529 ZOOM INTO 529
text: The Batsignal, filling the screen.
speaker_heading: PAN DOWN
scene_heading: 530 EXT. TOP OF SKYSCRAPER - NIGHT 530
text: Batman stands on the edge of the gargoyled building, a
text: lone silhouette keeping vigil over the city.
text: Then another figure steps up into frame, taking his place
text: behind Batman. Their capes billow in the city wind.
text: Now there are two guardians of the night: Batman and
dialog: Robin. Beware!
text: FINAL FADE TO BLACK.
dialog: 
speaker_heading: BATMAN 2
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - DUSK
text: It's finally happened. Hell's frozen over.
text: Christmas is two weeks off, arid SNOW is falling in Gotham.
text: Beneath its pristine white blanket, the city looks
text: uncharacteristically serene -- almost inviting. Peace has
dialog: been miraculously restored: strangers wave hello. Salvation
text: Army Santas ring their bells on streetcorners. And now, as
text: night falls, an ILLUMINATED SIGN winks on above Broad Avenue:
scene_heading: "JOYEUX NOEL GOTHAM -- Only 16 Shopping Days Left Till
dialog: Christmas."
text: The streets are bustling with jolly shoppers. At a souvenir
text: store, we find an exasperated MOM squabbling with her seven-
text: year old. Like many other storefronts in Gotham, this one is
text: overflowing with bootleg BATMAN MERCHANDISE: t-shirts, key
text: chains, ceramic figurines. The kid is already wearing a
text: Batman baseball cap and a little black cape, but he obviously
dialog: wants more.
text: Mom drags him off past another store window, this one full of
text: SCRAP METAL, with a sign reading "AUTHENTIC FRAGMENTS OF THE
text: BATWING -- $19.95 and up." A PANHANDLER is perched at the
text: entrance. Beneath his array jacket is a grubby sweatshirt
text: with the familiar yellow-and-black logo. In Gotham this
dialog: winter, Batmania is everywhere...
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - LATER THAT NIGHT
text: Two hours later, the SNOWSTORM's grown into a full-fledged
text: blizzard. The drifts are two feet deep and the streets are
text: all but empty of cars. A massive SNOW PLOW the size of a
text: Panzer tank rumbles past, FILLING THE FRAME...
text: ...and revealing, as it passes, a group of CAROLERS, all
text: bundled up in mufflers and parkas. Unbothered by the weather,
text: they walk the street singing, spreading cheer and goodwill to
text: the few passersby.
text: They've just gone into a lovely <i>a capella</i> rendition of "Silent
text: Night" when an oversized DELIVERY TRUCK, outfitted with snow
text: chains, clanks slowly past in the wake of the plow. Its sides
text: are decorated with cartoon igloos advertising a popular ice
text: cream snack -- POLAR BARS -- oddly inappropriate for this time
dialog: of year.
text: A streetcorner SANTA, with bell and bucket, WAVES at the truck
text: as it rounds a corner. The CAROLERS carol. Then --
text: -- a VIOLENT EXPLOSION rocks the street -- followed by the
text: sound of AUTOMATIC GUNFIRE and a high, wailing SECURITY ALARM.
scene_heading: EXT. SCHRACH AND CO. - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: Around the corner there's CARNAGE on the streets. The windows
text: have blown out of Gotham's leading jewelry store. Gut-shot
text: SECURITY GUARDS stagger and go face down in the snow as
text: ROBBERS, dressed in white camouflage gear, clamber out through
text: the shattered glass with SACKFULS OF LOOT.
text: CAROLERS spill around the corner to see what's going on, but a
text: spray of GUNFIRE sends them scattering in panic. The POLAR
text: BAR truck pulls even with the jewelry store, and as it does...
text: The REAR DOORS open. A RAMP slides down from the back of the
text: truck. The ROBBERS scramble aboard, and mere seconds later
text: SLIDE out AGAIN -- riding atop five SKIDOO SNOWMOBILES.
text: SIRENS HOWL. A POLICE CAR appears, taking the corner just a
text: trifle too fast -- FISHTAILING on the icy street and plowing
text: into a drift.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The COPS gun the engine, but their wheels are spinning in the
text: snow -- no traction. They're about to climb out and give
text: chase on foot when, through the windshield, they see the
dialog: Salvation Army SANTA...
text: ...HOISTING AN AK-47 AND FIRING DIRECTLY AT THEM. The
text: windshield disintegrates and the COPS sink from view as SANTA
text: races off to the last of the snowmobiles, which is already
text: burdened with LOOT.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: MORE SQUAD CARS converge on the jewelry store -- but it's
text: difficult to carry on a high-speed pursuit when the snow's a
dialog: foot deep and the best you can do is 6 MPH. The COP CARS skid
text: to a halt, blocked by the rumbling SNOWPLOW. By now, of
text: course, the LOOTERS are gone -- scooting off on either side of
text: the plow, sticking to the snowy sidewalks.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: SNOWMOBILES glide across the sidewalks, sending the few hardy
text: souls who are out on the streets DIVING FOR COVER. A couple
text: of DERELICTS are cowering behind a fire hydrant, trying to
text: avoid getting run over. Every time they poke their heads out,
text: another SKIDOO whizzes past, missing them by inches.
text: The ROBBERS fan out in various directions. These guys are
dialog: obviously going to get away clean -- unless...
text: The DERELICT points up at the night sky, where a BEACON is
text: blazing in the darkness -- THE BLACK SILHOUETTE OF A BAT...
scene_heading: INT. POLICE CAR - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: MORE SIRENS. A COP takes a radio call as he streaks down the
text: long wide avenue which borders Gotham Park -- one of the few
text: streets which is relatively clear. The COP at the wheel goes
text: wide-eyed and nudges his partner in disbelief.
text: Before their eyes, FIVE SNOWMOBILES appear from the cross
text: streets up ahead and CONVERGE at the entrance to Gotham Park.
text: Bringing up the rear is SANTA CLAUS.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: What the hell -- ?
scene_heading: EXT. ENTRANCE TO PARK - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BRAKES SQUEAL. Several squad cars are now massed at the
dialog: entrance to the park -- but there's one problem. The city's
text: snow plows don't operate on the park roads -- and the entrance
text: is blocked off with SAWHORSES reading "CLOSED TO TRAFFIC." A
text: huge steep drift prevents them from entering -- and so all
text: they can do is stand by helplessly, WATCHING as the
text: snowmobiles vanish into the trees.
text: The COPS race about like headless chickens, trying to concoct
text: a plan. A couple of them are trying to scale the stone walls
text: of the park. Another is at his car, barking into a radio
dialog: mike:
scene_heading: COP WITH MIKE
dialog: Yeah, you heard me. Snowmobiles!
dialog: <i>(pause)</i>
dialog: So what do we do? Chase 'em on foot??
text: ALL EYES TURN at the blare of a horn. The COPS peer down the
text: long corridor of the cross street -- and see a STRANGE BLACK
text: VEHICLE barreling toward them at 90 MPH, with no intention of
dialog: stopping...
text: THE BATMOBILE!! COPS dive left and right. A split-second
dialog: later...
text: ...a FORTY-FOOT JET of NOVA-INTENSITY FLAME erupts from the
text: front of the jet-black supercar -- instantaneously DISSOLVING
text: the drift that blocks the entrance to the park -- turning the
text: ice and snow on the paths before it into water!
text: The BATMOBILE screams past in the wink of an eye. The COPS
text: get to their feet; cold as it is, they're sweating. One of
text: them mops his brow and announces, dumfounded:
speaker_heading: COP I
dialog: ...That was Batman.
speaker_heading: COP II
dialog: NO SHIT!!
text: COP II yanks COP I into the nearest squad car, and the others
text: follow suit. ENGINES REV. As long as the BATMOBILE's cleared
dialog: a path, they might as well join in the chase...
scene_heading: EXT. BRIDLE PATH - THAT MOMENT
text: TWO BURLY TEENAGERS -- both dressed in RED BERETS and PARKAS
text: with BLACK BATMAN SWEATSHIRTS visible underneath -- are
text: trudging along the path when they're STARTLED by a pair of
text: speeding SKIDOOS. Moments later, they spot a RED GLOW on the
dialog: horizon...
text: ...and their JAWS DROP as the BATMOBILE roars into view,
text: BURNING OFF THE SNOW IN ITS PATH. Thrilled beyond words, they
text: WHOOP WITH GLEE, slapping high-fives as the car streaks past.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - ON BATMAN - THAT MOMENT
text: His face is weirdly illuminated by the flame still spitting
text: from the front of the car. Cool as ever -- approaching the
text: chase as a simple problem in logic -- he checks a radar
text: display on his dashboard and sees FIVE BLIPS.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - ON SQUAD CARS - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The cops follow along in BATMAN's path. The lead car LOSES
text: CONTROL and plows headlong into a drift. The DRIVER jams the
text: pedal, but his rear wheels end up digging a deep rut in the
text: ice. He sits there cursing, pumping the accelerator as other
text: COPS race past him on foot.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - ON BATMAN
text: The various ROBBERS have spread out, their vehicles BOUNDING
text: over the hilly terrain of the park. He spots two of them up
text: ahead; as he draws closer, they PART WAYS, veering off to the
dialog: left and right...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BATMOBILE - MOVING
text: PODS OPEN on the front fenders, and MISSILE LAUNCHERS rotate
text: into place. The Batmobile fires a pair of HEAT-SEEKING
text: TORPEDOS, which BURROW into the snow on either side and
dialog: disappear.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON LEFT SNOWMOBILE - MOVING
text: The DRIVER looks back over his shoulder and sees what appears
text: to be a BLACK SHARK FIN plowing through the snow behind him,
text: GAINING FAST. He takes evasive action, but the SHARK FIN
text: always seems to follow. Just as he approaches the crest of a
dialog: hill...
text: ...the TORPEDO slams into the rear of the SNOWMOBILE. The
text: force of impact knocks the ROBBER cleanly off. His LOOT lands
text: in the snow beside him, but the SNOWMOBILE keeps going --
text: sailing over the crest of the hill and striking the rocks
text: beyond with a deafening EXPLOSION.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON RIGHT SNOWMOBILE - MOVING
text: This ROBBER's a little smarter than his buddy. When he sees
text: the shark fin on his tail, he noses his snowmobile off into a
text: GROVE OF TREES. The trees are too closely spaced for the
text: torpedo to maneuver; it strikes the nearest tree trunk and
text: explodes harmlessly.
text: The ROBBER is feeling good about himself, because the
text: Batmobile can't follow either. But BATMAN has a Plan B. As
text: he drives alongside the grove, he HITS THE ACCELERATOR,
text: passing the snowmobile on its left. A STEEL SPIKE attached to
text: a cable launches from the side of the Batmobile and WEDGES
text: ITSELF into a distant TREE.
text: The cable goes taut, and the tree TOPPLES -- directly into the
text: path of the second SNOWMOBILE. The vehicle crashes into the
text: trunk, and the hapless ROBBER goes cartwheeling head-over-
text: heels into a drift.
text: In the distance, COPS appear -- racing to the scene on foot,
text: ready for mop-up duty. BATMAN kills the flamethrower, hits
text: the brakes, and FISHTAILS, doing a quick 180 on the snow.
text: He's just spotted fresh quarry: snowmobiles three and four,
text: whizzing over a rolling white pasture in the distance.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - THAT MOMENT
text: We're at a makeshift CAMPSITE -- where a cluster of HOMELESS
text: PEOPLE are burning refuse in a garbage can to keep warm. They
text: look on in puzzlement as the two SNOWMOBILES whiz past and
text: disappear over a crest of a hill...
scene_heading: EXT. LAKEFRONT - ON SNOWMOBILES #3 AND #4
text: They bounce down the hillside and SKID -- arriving at the edge
text: of a frozen-over LAKE. With the roar of the Batmobile behind
text: them, the two DRIVERS get the same idea simultaneously.
text: Smiling, they rev their engines and set out over the surface
dialog: of the lake.
text: Now the Batmobile crests the ridge. The car's weight tips
text: suddenly and it begins to skid down the hill toward the lake.
text: BATMAN sees what's happening and kills the flamethrower just
text: in time -- but he can't brake the car on the snowy slope. The
text: prow of the Batmobile slides out onto the edge of the lake --
text: -- and under its weight, the ICE begins to crack. The left
text: front tire takes a sudden dip -- and worse yet, the car is
text: sliding forward.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - ON BATMAN
text: He shifts frantically from drive to reverse, trying to rock
text: the car out of its predicament, but his rear wheels find no
text: purchase. He can hear the ice cracking beneath him.
text: Grimacing, he throws a switch on the dashboard --
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE - ON BATMOBILE
text: -- and the trunk pops open. An industrial-strength GRAPPLING
text: HOOK shoots upward and digs in at a point beyond the crest of
text: the hill; and a concealed WINCH ASSEMBLY begins to grind away,
text: hauling the Batmobile uphill, out of danger.
scene_heading: INT. BATMOBILE - ON BATMAN
text: Suspended just above the icy lake, he sees the SNOWMOBILE
text: vanishing into the distance. He opens (yet another) panel on
dialog: the dashboard...
scene_heading: EXT. LAKE - ON SNOWMOBILES #3 AND #4
text: The ROBBERS give each other a big thumbs-up. They're almost
text: halfway across the lake now and the Batmobile is disabled.
text: All at once they hear a strange WHISTLING overhead...
text: Fireworks? No, it's a THERMITE BOMB -- rocketing past them,
text: hitting the ice some forty feet ahead and EXPLODING GAUDILY.
text: JAGGED CHUNKS OF ICE break free and SHIFT in the frigid water
text: -- and the ROBBERS are skidding into the drink before they
dialog: know what's hit them.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SNOWMOBILE #5 - MOVING
text: The last of the robbers is SANTA CLAUS -- his big sack filled
text: not with toys, but precious stones. He approaches the edge of
text: the park, negotiating his way through a maze of rocky
text: outcroppings. He squirts out from behind a boulder into a
dialog: clearing...
text: ...and GASPS in PANIC as a SEARING BURST OF FLAME erupts
text: behind him. The BATMOBILE speeds out from the other side of
text: the boulder; SANTA twists his accelerator, desperately trying
dialog: to build up speed.
text: As it is, he's barely managing to stay ahead of the
text: flamethrower. But the jet of flame suddenly DIES; the HOOD of
text: the Batmobile rises half a foot --
text: -- and TWIN PROJECTILES launch into the air. A heavy NET is
text: strung between them -- and it lands SMACK ON TOP OF SANTA
text: CLAUS, entangling the snowmobile and stopping him in his
dialog: tracks.
text: Immobilized, he watches through the net in horror as the
text: Batmobile barrels down. When the great black machine is
text: almost atop him --
text: -- it stops on a dime six inches from his heavily-padded
dialog: frame.
scene_heading: EXT. ENTRANCE TO PARK - A MINUTE LATER - NIGHT
text: The COPS are spread out near the entrance. They've rounded up
text: the other ROBBERS and returned most of the loot. They hear a
text: dull ROAR in the distance...
text: ...and a few seconds later the BATMOBILE streaks into view,
text: dragging the NET behind it -- SANTA, his loot, and his
text: snowmobile, all tied up in one tidy parcel.
text: At the entrance to the park, the NET detaches itself from the
text: Batmobile, dumping SANTA into the hands of the waiting COPS.
text: Without stopping, the BATMOBILE roars out of the park and
text: vanishes whence it came. A mildly-humiliated COP turns to his
speaker_heading: colleague and SHRUGS:
speaker_heading: COP I
dialog: ...Merry Christmas.
text: The second COP points to SANTA, still struggling in the net.
speaker_heading: COP II
dialog: Gift-wrapped and everything.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. CITY HALL - DAY
text: TV MINICAM CREWS are camped out on the steps of City Hall,
text: with a sizable crowd watching from the street. COMMISSIONER
text: GORDON is reading from a prepared statement.
speaker_heading: GORDON
text: After a high-speed chase -- over $750,000
dialog: in precious jewels were recovered intact
dialog: by the police force -- working in concert
dialog: with Batman.
text: At the sound of Batman's name, a CHANTING goes up in the
dialog: crowd:
scene_heading: VOICES IN CROWD
text: TAKE BACK THE STREETS! TAKE BACK THE
text: STREETS! TAKE BACK THE --
text: GORDON winces and lets out a sigh. The CHANTERS are a group
text: of pugnacious, well-muscled KIDS, late teens and early
text: twenties, all dressed in identical garb: black Batman
text: SWEATSHIRTS and little red Guardian-angel BERETS. They're
dialog: obviously members of the same club -- just like the guys we
text: saw in the park.
text: GORDON waits for them to shut up, but they don't; so he grabs
text: the mike and speaks slowly and distinctly, trying to be heard
text: over the din.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I would like to stress -- that while this
dialog: city enjoys a special relationship with
dialog: Batman --
dialog: <i>(louder)</i>
dialog: -- we do not condone vigilantism --
dialog: <i>(practically screaming)</i>
scene_heading: -- IN ANY FORM.
text: It's no use. He's totally drowned out by the RED BERETS, who
text: continue to shout and shake their fists. Giving up, he
text: returns the mike to a REPORTER and marches up the steps in a
text: huff. The RED BERETS CHEER.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INSERT - TELEVISION SCREEN
text: The evening news: a live, on-the-spot interview from Gotham
text: Square. A superimposed GRAPHIC identifies a surly kid in a
scene_heading: RED BERET as "MIKE SEKOWSKY -- SPOKESPERSON -- ORDER OF THE
dialog: BAT."
speaker_heading: SEKOWSKY
dialog: And hey! Where does this --
dialog: <i>(BLEEP; expletive deleted)</i>
dialog: -- Gordon get off calling us <vigilantes>?
dialog: We're not breakin' any laws. We're a
dialog: group of concerned citizens, that's all --
dialog: just like Batman.
speaker_heading: WOMAN IN CROWD
dialog: You people are nothing but hoodlums!
speaker_heading: SEKOWSKY
dialog: Hey, lady -- we're out here on patrol
dialog: riskin' our necks to protect old biddies
dialog: like you.
dialog: <i>(into mike)</i>
dialog: If this lame-o Gordon could do his job --
text: MORE CATCALLS from the crowd. The picture jumps suddenly as a
text: minicam is jostled; some sort of SCUFFLE appears to be
text: breaking out. Before it does, CAMERA PULLS BACK from the TV
dialog: screen, placing us in:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: where ALFRED THE BUTLER is watching the Sekowsky interview
text: with extreme dismay. As he trims the crusts from a pair of
text: hearty watercress sandwiches, he SLICES HIS FINGER OPEN.
text: ALFRED makes a pained face -- it's all Sekowsky's fault.
text: Onscreen, the fracas continues; SEKOWSKY has recommandeered
dialog: the mike...
speaker_heading: SEKOWSKY (on TV)
dialog: We're provin' that the spirit of Batman is
dialog: alive in this city. We're gonna take back
dialog: the streets!
text: SEKOWSKY raises a fist. Behind him, his CRONIES begin to
text: chant: "TAKE BACK THE STREETS! TAKE BACK THE STREETS!"
text: Incensed, sucking on his finger, ALFRED moves to the TV and
text: flicks it off.
text: He turns on the radio in search of something more soothing.
text: "Good King Wenceslas" pipes through the manor; smiling, ALFRED
text: sets the sandwich plate alongside a steaming kettle on a
dialog: Sterling silver tea service.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S LIBRARY - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The CAROL CONTINUES UNDERNEATH as ALFRED, white linen draped
text: over one forearm, sets the tea tray down on his master's big
text: mahogany desk. He digs in his pocket for a key and unlocks a
text: side drawer.
text: The drawer contains a stack of yellowed, aging NEWPAPER
text: CLIPPINGS -- among them one which reads "THOMAS WAYNE
text: MURDERED: Prominent Doctor, Wife Slain in Robbery.
text: Unidentified Gunman Leaves Child Unharmed." ALFRED digs
text: around beneath the clippings and finds a concealed SWITCH at
text: the rear of the drawer.
text: Gears grind, and a sectional bookcase detaches itself from the
text: wall -- sliding out a couple of feet to reveal a STONE
text: STAIRWAY which descends into darkness...
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: Descending the stone stairs, ALFRED arrives in the Batcave.
text: "Good King Wenceslas" is on the speakers down here as well.
text: Across a catwalk the BATMOBILE rests on its little plateau,
text: wrapped in a tarp.
text: ALFRED clears some space on a lab table and sets the tea
text: service down. He glances up at the bank of video monitors and
text: sees SEKOWSKY, still babbling, on several channels
text: simultaneously. He scans the cave, but there's no trace of
speaker_heading: BRUCE.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Sir? -- MASTER BRUCE??
text: As if in response, BATS screech and flutter in the distant
text: recesses of the cavern. ALFRED turns suddenly and sees BRUCE
text: behind him, suspended from a thin filament wire, RISING OUT OF
text: A BOTTOMLESS ABYSS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm not deaf, Alfred. I hear you.
text: He's wearing his civvie -- tweed pants and cashmere sweater --
text: but he's got the utility belt, with its spring-action reel,
text: buckled about his waist. Clutching a bundle, he hangs in
text: midair for a moment, dangling over the void. ALFRED slowly
text: regains his composure:
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I took the liberty of preparing tea.
dialog: <i>(indicating tbe monitors)</i>
dialog: I take it you've been watching the news?
text: BRUCE, still dangling, glances up at the SEKOWSKY interview
text: and nods.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah...lot of crazy people in this world.
text: BRUCE rocks back and forth to build up momentum. He kicks off
text: on the nearest stone outcropping, lands gracefully on the
text: Batcave floor, and unbuckles his belt. Preoccupied, he drops
text: his mysterious bundle on the lab table: a roll of black
text: fabric, and a cluster of lightweight, hollow ALUMINUM RODS,
text: connected by what appears to be SURGICAL TUBING.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I should inform you...Christmas is
dialog: approaching, and we've received our annual
text: solicitation from the Fireman's Toy Fund.
dialog: <i>(eyeing the equipment)</i>
dialog: If I may inquire...?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oh, yeah. Watch this.
text: BRUCE hits a trigger on a tiny gas canister attached to the
text: tubing. The tubing inflates and the rods spring erect --
text: stiffening, wing-like, into something which looks remarkably
text: like the skeleton of an umbrella.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Most ingenious, sir. What exactly <is> it?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What does it look like?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: To the untrained eye, sir, it looks
dialog: remarkably like...the skeleton of an
dialog: umbrella.
text: Sounds good. BRUCE eyes his new invention, thinks it over,
text: smiles slyly.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good guess, Alfred. That's exactly right.
text: BRUCE hits the trigger, and the rods WILT with a hiss. He
text: sits at his lab table; ALFRED unfolds a napkin on his lap,
text: pours a cup of tea.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Splendid, sir, and if I may say, I'm glad
dialog: you're putting your time to such
dialog: productive use.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: Now -- the Toy Fund. Our contribution
dialog: last year was a half-million dollars...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: We can do better than that.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Then there's the foster-parents program...
dialog: the Gotham homeless crusade...
text: BRUCE nods abstractedly and tucks into his sandwich. He seems
text: oddly preoccupied -- not exactly melancholy, but his thoughts
text: are obviously a million miles away. ALFRED looks on,
dialog: concerned:
speaker_heading: ALFRED (cont.)
dialog: Is something troubling you, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah...the holidays, I guess. Always gets
dialog: me thinking about...
dialog: <i>(he changes the subject)</i>
dialog: And to tell you the truth, I'm a little --
dialog: concerned about Vicki.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: <i>(anxiously)</i>
dialog: Miss Vale, sir...?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah. I've been thinking about it lately.
dialog: Thinking about it a lot...
dialog: <i>(gravely; shaking his head)</i>
dialog: ...and I still can't figure out what to
dialog: get her for Christmas.
text: BRUCE shoots ALFRED a solemn, perplexed look -- and ALFRED
text: heaves an audible sigh of relief as we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PRISON CELL - DAY
text: TIGHT ON a stack of COOPS and CAGES, piled high against a bare
text: concrete wall. Each cage -- and there are at least two dozen
text: of them -- contains a twittering BIRD: starlings, pigeons,
dialog: cardinals, titwillows...
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK from the bars of the cages to reveal a VERY
text: ODD FIGURE in prison greys. A CANARY, perched on his
text: shoulder, SINGS HAPPILY as he stands in front of a grimy,
text: cracked mirror, plastering back his hair, BUFFING HIS NAILS
text: with quick, birdlike strokes.
text: MR. BONIFACE is beak-nosed, epicene, and so fat that it seems
dialog: his skin should burst; the adjective that comes to mind is
text: "obscene." Despite his eccentric appearance, he comports
text: himself with overblown, theatrical dignity. Fastidious and
text: preening, he does not suffer insults lightly.
text: CAMERA PULLS BACK FURTHER -- through another set of bars --
text: and we realize that MR. BONIFACE is himself caged. A PRISON
text: GUARD arrives to slide back his cell door...
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Up and at 'em, Pengy. -- Pengy?
text: MR. BONIFACE pointedly ignores the GUARD, refusing to
dialog: acknowledge the odious (if wholly appropriate) nickname.
speaker_heading: GUARD (cont.)
dialog: Boniface...
text: MR. BONIFACE finally turns. With an expression of extreme
text: distaste, he affixes a MONOCLE over one eye, returns the
text: canary to its cage and allows himself to be ushered out.
scene_heading: INT. WARDEN'S OFFICE - DAY
text: MR. BONIFACE and his ATTORNEY sit at a long table across from
text: the WARDEN and the members of the PAROLE BOARD.
speaker_heading: PAROLE OFFICER
dialog: You want to return the money you stole.
speaker_heading: BONIFACE
dialog: Intact. The map will show you where it's
dialog: buried.
text: The PAROLE OFFICER stares skeptically at a hand-scrawled MAP.
speaker_heading: PAROLE OFFICER
dialog: All of it. Forty-two million dollars.
text: MR. BONIFACE stares down humbly at the table -- as if he finds
dialog: the mere mention of his transgression too embarrassing to
dialog: bear.
speaker_heading: PAROLE OFFICER II
dialog: Why this sudden change of heart?
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: Gentlemen, I want my debt to be repaid in
dialog: full. I want to be a part of civilized
dialog: society!
dialog: <i>(oozing sincerity)</i>
dialog: Prison life is not for me. The guilt, the
dialog: fear, the constant shame...one meets a
text: disturbingly low class of people.
speaker_heading: PAROLE OFFICER II
dialog: Sure, but -- forty-two million dollars??
text: MR. BONIFACE nods plaintively. It's quite a perfomlance. He
text: dabs at his face with a handkerchief; it's hot in here, and
dialog: he's the delicate type...
speaker_heading: WARDEN
dialog: His record's clean. Thirteen years
dialog: without an incident.
speaker_heading: ATTORNEY
dialog: I'd like to point out, my client's put his
dialog: time to good use. A student of
dialog: ornithology...articles published in
dialog: several respected journals...
text: The PAROLE OFFICER thumbs through a stack of magazines: Bird
text: World, Ornithological Review, Beaks And Feathers, Nest Egg.
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: Birds, yes. My only source of solace.
speaker_heading: PAROLE OFFICER
dialog: In light of this rather extraordinary
dialog: gesture, I see no reason not to endorse
dialog: your application for parole.
speaker_heading: BONIFACE
dialog: Thank you, sir. You won't regret it.
text: MR. BONIFACE shakes hands with the members of the PAROLE
text: BOARD. As the GUARDS escort him out, a BLACK MYNAH BIRD
text: SQUAWKS LOUDLY from its cage in the corner of the office:
speaker_heading: MYNAH
text: CRIME DOES NOT PAY. AAWWK!! CRIME DOES
dialog: NOT PAY.
text: CHUCKLES all around. On his way out the ATTORNEY gestures
text: toward the mynah -- and BEAMS at the parole board:
speaker_heading: ATTORNEY
dialog: Personally trained by my client.
scene_heading: INT. PRISON CELL - DAY
text: Free time -- the cell doors are open and the convicts are
text: milling around in the common area. T-BONE, 220 lbs. of dumb,
text: hulking beef, saunters up to his cell and finds his bunkmate,
text: MR. BONIFACE, staring at a stack of EMPTY CAGES. BONIFACE
text: whirls on him suddenly, his face beet-red, APOPLECTIC WITH
speaker_heading: RAGE:
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: -- Where are my birds?!?
speaker_heading: T-BONE
dialog: Shit, Pengy. I let 'em go.
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: Hermione. My canary. It's the dead of
dialog: winter!
text: T-BONE flops casually on his bunk, obviously enjoying MR.
text: BONIFACE's profound distress.
speaker_heading: T-BONE
dialog: They were all cooped up. With you leaving
dialog: and all -- seemed like the humane thing to
dialog: do.
text: BONIFACE'S GAZE FALLS on a corner of the cell. He spots a
text: scattering of YELLOW FEATHERS -- a patch of FRESH BLOOD. With
text: a supreme effort of restraint, he turns and forces a smile...
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: I see. -- You might as well have this. I
dialog: won't be needing it...
text: He tosses a SONY WALKMAN to T-BONE, who flicks it on. The dim
text: strains of CLASSICAL MUSIC are audible through the
dialog: earphones...
speaker_heading: T-BONE
dialog: Well, thanks, Pengy. No hard feelings.
dialog: <i>(chuckling to himself)</i>
dialog: Y'know, I'm gonna miss that pudgy little
dialog: ass of yours.
text: T-BONE tunes the Walkman to a rock station, slips the headset
text: on, grins from his bunk. TWO GUARDS arrive. As they escort
text: him out, MR. BONIFACE mutters:
speaker_heading: MR. BONIFACE
dialog: You won't miss it long.
scene_heading: EXT. PRISON - MAIN ENTRANCE - DAY
text: It's fifteen degrees outside as MR. BONIFACE -- aka THE
text: PENGUIN -- waddles forth from the prison gates, regally
text: attired in cutaway and pin-stripes. He pauses to inhale a
text: deep lungful of the icy air; then, with a smile of
text: exhilaration, he removes his coat and STRETCHES -- spreading
text: his wings, REVELING in the cold.
text: A STRETCH LIMO pulls up. Two identically gaunt and vulture-
text: like DANDIES, formally dressed, with bowler hats and
text: umbrellas, step out to meet him. These two gentlemen -- FRICK
text: and FRACK -- serve as the Penguin's general factoti and
dialog: "business managers."
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Welcome back, Mr. Boniface.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Mr. Frick. Mr. Frack. Our years of
text: planning are about to pay off.
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - MOVING - DAY
text: Now that he's loose, the PENGUIN's rapacious side is beginning
text: to show. His eyes twinkle with greed as he contemplates his
dialog: own ingenuity.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: I take it they found the money all right?
speaker_heading: FRACK
dialog: We buried it exactly as you specified.
dialog: $42,271,009...
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: How much have we got left?
text: FRICK reaches into his coat for a BALANCE SHEET.
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Let's see -- an initial capitalization of
dialog: 42 million and change, compounded over
dialog: thirteen years, at an annual return of
dialog: just under sixteen percent --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Fine, fine. How much?
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Seventy-nine million. -- Excluding the
dialog: sum we buried.
text: THE PENGUIN lets out a dry, heaving CHORTLE, midway between a
text: normal laugh and a DUCK'S QUACK. He checks his watch and
text: reaches into his pocket for a small ELECTRONIC DEVICE.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Speaking of burials...
scene_heading: EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY
text: T-BONE on work detail. He's got the Walkman on and he's
text: shoveling snow to the beat. He winces, and removes the
dialog: headphones...
text: The MUSIC he was listening to has been replaced by an eerie,
text: high-pitched WHINE. He's twisting the knob, trying to find
text: the station he was tuned to, when a PIGEON dives down STRAIGHT
text: AT HIS HEAD.
speaker_heading: T-BONE
dialog: HEY -- !
text: He drops the shovel as the bird STRIKES, glancing off his
text: head. Before he can react, THREE MORE PIGEONS have swooped
text: down at him, PECKING at his head and shoulders in a frenzy.
text: He lets out a HOWL and staggers through the prison yard in a
text: frenzy. DOZENS of PIGEONS are pouring over the prison walls,
text: SHRIEKING HIDEOUSLY, descending on him. He falls to the
text: ground screaming for help, but the other prisoners run like
text: rabbits, terrified...
text: By the time the GUARDS come racing across the courtyard,
text: T-BONE's no longer even visible. There's just a swarming,
text: man-shaped mass of PIGEONS, pecking away, flapping their wings
text: insanely. Covering their faces as they move in, the GUARDS
text: blow their whistles -- BEAT AT the pigeons with billy clubs.
text: All at once, the PIGEONS take off <i>en masse</i> -- leaving T-BONE's
text: mutilated corpse sprawled in the yard. A GUARD notices the
text: Walkman, picks up the earphones to listen, and hears nothing
text: but ROCK MUSIC -- "Surfin' Bird" by the Trashmen. Bird bird
dialog: bird, bird is the word...
scene_heading: EXT. ROAD - ON PENGUIN'S LIMO - MOVING
text: An AERIAL VIEW of the LIMO as it cruises down the deserted
text: road leading away from the prison. It disappears from view --
text: and all at once the frame is filled with PIGEONS, great
text: squalling FLOCKS of them, dutifully following their master as
text: he makes his way back to Gotham City.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
text: ALFRED opens the front door and finds a bundled-up VICKI out
text: on the portico, red-cheeked, flushed, and happy. She pulls
text: him forward, gives him a quick peck on the cheek.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Guess what, Alfred. I think I found a
dialog: present for Bruce.
text: She's got a long, skinny GIFT BOX propped up against the
text: exterior wall. At first it doesn't want to fit through the
text: door -- it must be eight feet long -- but with ALFRED's help
text: she gets it inside. The faithful butler stares curiously at
dialog: this odd-shaped gift...
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: Skis. -- Don't let on, okay?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: He won't hear a word of it from me.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: He's such a nightmare to shop for. --
dialog: What do you get him year after year,
dialog: Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: <i>(conspiratorially)</i>
dialog: I find you can't go wrong with
dialog: surveillance equipment. Let me put this
dialog: under the tree...
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Not so fast.
text: She reaches into the pocket of her coat and pulls out another
text: small gift. ALFRED stares at the tag -- "TO ALFRED, LOVE
text: VICKI" -- and tries to suppress a HUGE GRIN.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Why, Miss Vale -- !
scene_heading: VOICE FROM BEHIND
dialog: What's all this?
text: ALFRED and VICKI turn. It's BRUCE, dressed for dinner,
text: marching down the long stairway in the entry hall. VICKI
text: waves frantically.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Don't look. It's your present.
text: VICKI rushes over to embrace him. He gapes at the long skinny
dialog: box --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What'd you get me? Kareem Abdul-Jabbar?
text: VICKI frowns and gives him a kiss. She nestles up against
text: him. WHISPERS in his ear:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'm going to give you the happiest
dialog: Christmas you've ever had.
text: Still in the clinch, BRUCE shoots a look at ALFRED. Taking
text: the hint, ALFRED clears his throat and bends to pick up one
text: end of the ski box. He backs out of the entry hall, dragging
text: the box before him...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - NIGHT
text: FIRES burn in garbage cans. TENTS and LEAN-TOS dot the snowy
text: landscape. Men, women, and children wander aimlessly,
text: huddling against the cold.
text: An army of the HOMELESS has set up camp in Gotham Park. On
text: the nearby periphery, PICKETERS -- half concerned citizens,
text: half down-and-outers -- are marching the sidewalks, keeping a
text: candlelight VIGIL. Hand-lettered placards read: "SAVE THE
text: PARK." "PARKS ARE FOR PEOPLE." "THIS PARK IS OUR HOME."
text: The source of the protest? A towering SIGN posted in a corner
text: of the park, announcing the imminent consuuction of a new
text: luxury highrise -- the GOTHAM PARK TOWERS -- a project of Shaw
dialog: Construction, Inc.
text: A LAMBORGHINI sits at a traffic light nearby...
scene_heading: INT. LAMBORGHINI - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BRUCE and VICKI, dressed for dinner, stare out at the
dialog: demonstration.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Homeless.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: I was just down here Tuesday. Seems like
dialog: there's more every day.
text: BRUCE starts to say something, but can't think of anything to
dialog: say.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: Christmas time. And they say there's over
text: a thousand people living in the park
dialog: already.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- Yeah.
text: The light changes. BRUCE throws the car into gear and -- at
text: the next intersection -- turns the car right, into the park.
scene_heading: EXT. PUB-IN-THE-PARK - NIGHT
text: Despite the name, it's a tony little bistro catering to
text: Gotham's elite. A PANHANDLER, underdressed for the cold, has
text: been hustling the customers as they come out; a couple of
text: PARKING ATTENDANTS are trying to drag him discreetly away as
text: BRUCE'S CAR pulls up.
text: A VALET opens the car for BRUCE and VICKI, who look on in
text: concern as the PANHANDLER gets the bum's rush. The liveried
text: DOORMAN shrugs apolagetically -- sorry for the inconvenience
text: -- as they enter.
scene_heading: INT. PUB-IN-THE-PARK - NIGHT
text: Post-dinner. VICKI's got a sheaf of PHOTOS spread out on the
text: table in front of BRUCE -- shots of Gotham's HOMELESS, being
text: forcibly evicted from slum dwellings, erecting their
text: SHANTYTOWNS in Gotham Park.
speaker_heading: VICKI
text: They're already razing the tenements and
dialog: SRO's downtown. These people don't have
dialog: anyplace else to go.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: If the city starts selling off the park...
text: BRUCE takes a good long look at his opulent surroundings.
text: HUGE WINDOWS open on a serene and picturesque view of the
text: park; CAMPFIRES flicker in the distance...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- Yeah. I guess I'll pass on dessert.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: <i>(taking his hand)</i>
dialog: Bruce, you do a lot more than most people
dialog: even dream of.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Sure. Comes off the top of my taxes --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: That's not what I meant.
text: They exchange a long silent look. Of course she's referring
text: to Batman. Still, the argument doesn't hold much water with
speaker_heading: BRUCE.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- What I "do" doesn't come close to the
dialog: root of the problem, Vicki.
dialog: <i>(long pause)</i>
dialog: I'm just a Band-Aid.
scene_heading: VOICE FROM BEHIND
dialog: Bruce! It's been ages!
text: VICKI turns -- and rapidly closes her photo folder.
text: Millionaire construction magnate RANDALL SHAW is in the
text: restaurant table-hopping, and he's just glommed onto BRUCE.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Randall. You remember Vicki. -- How's
dialog: the construction business?
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: The park tower? All systems go. If we
dialog: can get the junkies and winos cleared
dialog: out...
dialog: <i>(a big grin)</i>
text: Not too late to get in on the deal.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'll think about it.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Say, Walter Barrett's due back from
dialog: Europe. We should all get together at the
dialog: club.
dialog: <i>(clapping him on the shoulder)</i>
dialog: Nice to see you again, Miss Veal.
text: "Miss Veal" maintains a big phony smile as SHAW moves off to
text: the next table. She murmurs to BRUCE through clenched teeth:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What a pig.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I've known him since he was seven years
dialog: old. He was a pig then too.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Now he wants to gobble up the park...
dialog: <i>(shivering)</i>
dialog: Bruce -- isn't there something you can do
dialog: about people like that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What, tie him up with a bat-rope?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: No, you idiot. I meant you. Bruce.
text: BRUCE nods -- oh, yeah. Subtle distinction.
scene_heading: INT. PUB-IN-THE-PARK - NIGHT
text: BRUCE and VICKI emerge from the restaurant. He hands his
text: parking stub to a VALET. A crowd's beginning to form in the
dialog: lot outside...
text: The red-and-blue bubble of a POLICE CAR is flashing a short
text: distance off, near the entrance to the park. TWO RED BERETS,
text: in full Order-of-the-Bat regalia, look on as a recently-mugged
text: WOMAN JOGGER gives her statement to the investigating COPS.
text: BRUCE and VICKI, intrigued by the Batman-wannabes, move a
text: little closer -- within eavesdropping range:
speaker_heading: RED BERET I
dialog: We were on patrol. Saw the whole thing.
speaker_heading: JOGGER
dialog: I was attacked. Three men in ski masks --
speaker_heading: COP I
scene_heading: <i>(indicating the RED BERETS)</i>
dialog: And these two broke it up?
speaker_heading: JOGGER
dialog: These two?? They ran like rabbits. I
dialog: never saw anybody take off so --
speaker_heading: RED BERET II
dialog: Hey! Somebody had to go for the cops.
speaker_heading: COP II
dialog: You. SHUT UP, all right??
speaker_heading: <i>(to the JOGGER)</i>
dialog: Lady, who was it that bailed you out??
speaker_heading: JOGGER
dialog: A kid. Thirteen or fourteen tops. He
text: just came out of nowhere and -- tore into
dialog: 'em.
dialog: <i>(shaking her head)</i>
text: It was so quick I didn't even see his
dialog: face.
text: Nearby, VICKI shoots a highly quizzical look at BRUCE, who
text: responds with a mystified shrug. Her professional curiosity
text: piqued, she wanders over to introduce herself to the JOGGER.
text: An exasperated COP leads the RED BERETS away from the crime
dialog: site:
speaker_heading: RED BERET I
dialog: Dumb shit. Shouldn'ta been jogging in the
text: park at night anyway.
dialog: <i>(sullenly)</i>
dialog: Look around you. It's fulla bums.
text: BRUCE gestures at the RED BERET's Batman sweatshirt as he
dialog: passes.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Nice outfit.
speaker_heading: RED BERET I
dialog: Piss off, geek.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFRONT DISTRICT - NIGHT
text: Snow blankets the abandoned warehouses rimming Gotham Harbor.
text: FOGHORNS blare in the distance as a pair of STILETTO HEELS --
dialog: totally inappropriate for the weather -- click across the
text: sidewalk and pause at mid-block, where a wide wooden plank
text: leads down from street level to a seedy hole-in-the-wall bar:
text: the WHARF RAT.
scene_heading: INT. WHARF RAT - NIGHT
text: A roughneck joint, about as trendy as the average bait shack.
text: The clientele consists primarily of surly types who are saving
text: up for their next tattoo. A TV over the bar is tuned to the
dialog: late news:
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN
dialog: ...and tomorrow, the city's power elite
dialog: will be turning out in force to greet
dialog: millionaire industrialist Walter Barrett,
text: who returns to Gotham after a five-year
dialog: stay in Europe...
text: The BARTENDER switches to a hockey game, because none of the
text: rowdies at the bar give a shit about Walter Barrett. None,
text: that is, except for a strapping young bruiser named RICKY, who
text: gets up and makes his way to a pay phone in the corner.
text: Moments later, the owner of the high heels enters; she opens
text: her black fur coat and unwraps her muffler, revealing exotic,
text: vaguely Eurasian features. She's dark and elegant, fine-
dialog: boned, regal of bearing -- and her name, though we don't know
text: it yet, is SELINA KYLE.
dialog: She's not the kind of girl who typically frequents the Wharf
text: Rat, and so her entrance creates quite a stir. A LONGSHOREMAN
text: at the nearby pool table misses his shot and digs a rut in the
text: felt. Two blowsy WHORES size her up territorially as she
text: finds an open stool at the bar and settles in with serene
text: indifference.
text: The regulars, of course, are all but licking their chops. The
text: only guy in the joint who hasn't noticed her yet is RICKY,
dialog: who's still on the phone:
speaker_heading: RICKY
dialog: Yo. Ricky here. What's the haps?
text: In mid-conversation he notices SELINA. She smiles invitingly
text: -- right at him. Mildly startled, he smiles back.
speaker_heading: RICKY (cont.)
dialog: Midnight. No sweat. See you then.
text: He hangs up eagerly. Then, with a deep breath, he hitches up
text: his pants and swaggers over to SELINA's end of the bar.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Well. "Ricky," is it?
speaker_heading: RICKY
dialog: How'd you know that?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I heard you on the phone. Talking to your
dialog: girlfriend.
speaker_heading: RICKY
dialog: Girlfriend? No, no. That was business.
text: SELINA makes a big show of peeling off her gloves.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: If you've got time for a little pleasure
dialog: ...maybe you'd like to buy me a drink.
text: She clasps his hand. His EYES BUG OUT. Three enormous rings,
dialog: a diamond bracelet -- there must be several thousand in rocks
text: on her left hand alone. RICKY gapes at the sparklers,
text: bedazzled.
speaker_heading: RICKY
text: Jeez -- they look almost real.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Why wouldn't they be?
dialog: RICKY is not the smoothest guy around, and his line of thought
text: is all too evident. He swallows hard and tries not to stare.
speaker_heading: RICKY
dialog: You'd have to be crazy. Nobody'd wear the
dialog: real thing to a dive like this.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Oh, they're real, all right. So are
dialog: these.
text: She waves her FINGERNAILS -- long, polished, and talon-sharp
text: -- in front of his eyes. With lightning speed, before he can
text: react, she pins his wrist to the bar -- and with one quick
text: stroke carves a THIN BLOODY STRIPE in the back of his hand.
text: SELINA's eyes flash as he gasps in shock. He tries to jerk
text: his hand away, but he can't break her grip. Then -- her
text: dominance firmly established -- she releases his hand with a
text: coy, Cheshire-cat smile.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Weren't we going to have a drink?
text: He blinks, forces a chuckle, smiles unsteadily. She takes his
text: wounded hand, lifts it slowly to her mouth, and LAPS GENTLY at
text: the blood. RICKY is hypnotized.
text: She's got an odd way of flirting, but RICKY finds it somehow
text: -- intriguing. He dabs at his hand with a napkin and signals
text: to the BARTENDER.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WATERFRONT - PIER 31 - NIGHT
text: Just after midnight; the snow's still failing, the waters are
text: icy, and the wharfs are deserted -- almost. A small STEAMBOAT
text: is docked at Pier 31, and the deck is lined with THUGS --
text: mean, ugly, and heavily armed.
text: A similar contingent of gun-toting GOONS is waiting to greet
text: them on the dock below. The boys on the dock hoist ASSAULT
text: RIFLES as the BOAT THUGS extend a gangplank. Something major
dialog: is about to happen...
text: The CHIEF DOCK GOON gestures to his LIEUTENANT, who grabs a
text: black MEDICAL BAG. Hands raised, the two of them start up the
dialog: gangplank.
text: Throughout all this, the DOCK GOONS keep their guns trained on
text: the BOAT THUGS, covering their buddies. One of them turns to
dialog: a colleague:
speaker_heading: DOCK GOON I
dialog: Where's that goddam Ricky?
speaker_heading: DOCK GOON II
dialog: Probably out gettin' laid. And here we
dialog: are freezin' our balls off...
scene_heading: EXT. STEAMBOAT - ON DECK - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The LIEUTENANT unloads chemical testing gear from his doctor's
text: bag. The lead BOAT THUG gestures to a stack of SHIPPING
text: CRATES which rest atop a large NET spread out across the deck.
speaker_heading: BOAT THUG I
dialog: You pick.
text: The CHIEF GOON selects a crate at random. Two BOAT THUGS tip
text: it on its side and, using a crowbar, pry off a FALSE BOTTOM --
text: revealing a dozen packets of WHITE POWDER.
scene_heading: POV SHOT - HIGH ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: We're now watching the scene from a vantage point atop a
text: ramshackle boathouse at water's edge. Down on the deck of the
text: steamboat, the LIEUTENANT goes to work testing the
dialog: merchandise.
speaker_heading: LIEUTENANT
dialog: It's pure.
scene_heading: REVERSE ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: A BLACK SILHOUETTE is peering down from the boathouse roof.
text: The mysterious watcher ducks quickly out of sight; the only
text: details that register are a pair of ominously familiar POINTY
dialog: EARS...
speaker_heading: CHIEF GOON (O.S.)
dialog: Let's do it.
text: He gestures to his boys on the dock. A CRANE-AND-WINCH
text: assembly rotates into place over the deck -- and the BOAT
text: THUGS gather up the corners of the netting and attach them to
text: the big hook.
speaker_heading: BOAT THUG I
dialog: Hold it. Let's see the money.
text: Down on the wharf, a DOCK GOON kneels beside a metal suitcase
text: and opens it. Lots of long green inside. The BOAT THUG
text: signals thumbs up, and the CRATES rise into the air as the
text: goon with the suitcase starts up the gangplank.
scene_heading: LOW ANGLE - ON GANGPLANK - THAT MOMENT
text: The goon with the suitcase marches up. Beyond him, in the
text: distance, a LITHE BLACK SHADOW vaults off the boathouse roof
text: and makes a silent, graceful landing on the long shaft of the
speaker_heading: CRANE.
scene_heading: ANOTHER ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: The moment of maximum tension: grim faces all around, everyone
text: holding a gun on someone else as the suitcase arrives on deck
text: and crane swings over the pier.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON CRANE - THAT MOMENT
text: Razor-sharp, CHROME-STEEL TALONS slash suddenly through the
dialog: air.
scene_heading: ON DOCK - LOW ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: The netting GIVES WAY, and TWO DOZEN SHIPPING CRATES rain down
text: onto the pier, CRUSHING two DOCK GOONS underneath. The crates
text: explode into splinters, littering the dock with drugs and
text: random ART OBJECTS as the other DOCK GOONS scatter in panic.
scene_heading: ON STEAMBOAT - THAT MOMENT
text: Nobody knows quite what's going on. Panicking, the GOON with
text: the suitcase full of money turns tail and dives for the
text: gangplank. BOAT THUG I sees him and squeezes off a quick
text: shot. Winged, the GOON topples off the gangplank and hits the
dialog: drink, suitcase and all.
text: Pandemonium. All at once, everyone's OPENING FIRE. Thinking
text: he's been double-crossed, BOAT THUG I turns on the CHIEF GOON
text: and SHOOTS HIM TWICE at point-blank range.
speaker_heading: BOAT THUG I
dialog: YOU SON OF A BITCH!
scene_heading: <i>(to another BOAT THUG)</i>
dialog: Go after it. Get the money. GO!!
text: He raises his gun, and the second BOAT THUG dutifully obeys --
text: diving off the deck into a hail of gunfire. Everyone's
text: ducking for cover. BOAT THUG I barks orders at the
dialog: pilothouse:
speaker_heading: BOAT THUG I
dialog: Soltar las amarras! -- CAST OFF!!
scene_heading: ANOTHER BOAT THUG
speaker_heading: LOOK!
text: BOAT THUG I whirls, just in time to see a SHADOWY FIGURE
text: landing cat-like on the deck mere yards away. Clad in inky
text: black leather from head to toe, the intruder's face is
text: concealed by what appears to be a BONDAGE MASK. Studded, with
text: openings for the eyes and mouth, it spans one incongruous
text: touch: a pair of POINTED CAT EARS.
text: She bares her teeth and HISSES.
dialog: It's a woman.
text: BOAT THUG I is momentarily mesmerized. In the time it takes
text: him to lift his gun, she's produced a CAT-O'-NINE-TAILS. She
text: SNAPS it at him: REELS HIM IN; and with one lethal stroke,
text: RAKES her steel talons across his face and throat. He slumps
text: to the deck, lifeless.
text: The other BOAT THUG rushes her; she catches him under the jaw
text: with a sudden upthrust, LIFTS HIM INTO THE AIR, and sends him
text: toppling into the water.
text: The gangplank falls aside as the steamboat pulls away from the
text: pier. She hoists an abandoned ASSAULT RIFLE, SCATTERS the
text: DOCK GOONS with a round of automatic fire, and VAULTS off the
text: boat -- landing in a graceful crouch on the edge of the pier.
text: Most of the DOCK GOONS have taken flight, but a few unlucky
text: specimens remain behind. She somersaults forward; takes one
text: goon off his feet with a crack of the whip; knocks another off
text: the dock with a twirling high-kick to the jaw; sends two more
text: reeling with swift talon-slashes. The whole frenzied mop-up
text: action takes just under ten seconds. Alone at last, she
text: stands back to survey the scene.
text: Counting the stiff's on the boat -- which is now receding in
text: the harbor -- there must be well over a dozen dead. The snow
text: is speckled with red. A half-dozen bodies lie sprawled in
text: their own blood; one of them, the lone survivor, is face-down
text: and softly MOANING.
text: Retracting her steel claws, the MASKED WOMAN crouches amid the
text: wreckage of the smashed shipping crates. BINDLES OF WHITE
text: POWDER -- millions of dollars' worth -- are scattered all
text: about the pier, but she couldn't seem less interested.
text: Instead, she's checking the MANIFEST NUMBERS stamped on the
text: sides of the crates.
text: She finds crate #18396-BB and rummages among its contents
text: until she comes up with a carefully-wrapped parcel. She opens
text: it carefully and holds it up for inspection. The statuette of
text: a RAVEN -- carved from solid onyx -- glistens in the
dialog: moonlight.
text: The WOMAN pauses long enough to slip a small CARD in the
text: MOANING PUNK's back pocket. Then, cradling the raven under
text: one arm, she dashes off on silent cat feet.
text: A LANTERN approaches. It's an OLD SALT -- some kind of
text: hapless night watchman -- and his face goes bone-white at the
text: sight of the carnage on the docks. He kneels beside the
text: moaning punk, turns the body over, and GASPS -- because the
text: PUNK'S FACE has been CLAWED TO SHREDS.
speaker_heading: PUNK
dialog: Murcielago. MURCIELAGO!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PENGUIN'S LAIR - NIGHT
text: The unique chamber in which we find ourselves is alive with
text: the flutter and song of COLD-WEATHER BIRDS -- dozens of them,
text: all chirping, flitting about in the rafters, alighting on
text: special perches mounted in the walls.
text: At the center of this penthouse room is a vast sunken POOL.
text: ARCTIC TERNS loll on the surrounding rocks as a LACKEY with a
text: wheelbarrow empties cracked ice into the already-frigid water.
text: Carefully landscaped, it looks like the penguin exhibit at the
dialog: Gotham Zoological Gardens.
text: A MASSIVE, INDISTINCT SHAPE glides beneath the surface. It's
text: not a whale; it's too pink. It is, instead, the PENGUIN --
text: and as he breaks the surface, sputtering, he sees FRICK
text: standing in the open doorway.
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Mr. Boniface? Your...visitor has arrived.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Frick. Show her in.
text: The PENGUIN moves to the edge of the sunken pool. Two of his
text: LACKEYS swivel a CROSSBAR, which hangs from the ceiling by a
text: long chain, into place over his head. He grasps it with both
text: hands -- and the crossbar RISES, hoisting his formidable bulk
text: out of the water.
scene_heading: INT. HIGH-RISE - CORRIDOR - THAT MOMENT
text: FRICK leads the VISITOR down a long corridor lined on either
text: side with BIRD CAGES -- exotic songbirds with brilliantly-hued
text: plumage. CAMERA TRACKS ALONG behind her, and although we
text: can't see her face, there must be something distinctively
text: feline about her -- because the BIRDS are shrieking and
text: fluttering in their cages, RECOILING INSTINCTIVELY as she
text: strolls past.
text: FRICK opens a door and ushers her into...
scene_heading: INT. PENGUIN'S LAIR - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: Our visitor -- SELINA KYLE -- enters the penguin-pool room.
text: Her teeth begin to chatter. The big bay windows have been
text: thrown open, and SNOW is blowing in from outside. It's
dialog: freezing in here.
text: She sees the PENGUIN -- wearing a thin dressing gown and an
text: APRON outfitted with SEED POUCHES -- scattering birdseed on
text: the window ledge for the pigeons, totally oblivious to the
text: cold. He turns, throws his arms wide in greeting, kisses the
text: back of SELINA's hand.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Ah, Miss Kyle! At last we meet.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: At last we meet. -- Pigeons?
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Yes, they're common birds -- dirty,
dialog: stupid, unattractive -- but they're very
dialog: obedient, and they do crap on people's
dialog: heads. May I?
text: She extends a SHOPPING BAG. The PENGUIN removes a parcel and
text: unwraps it, revealing the RAVEN STATUETTE. He sets it on a
text: nearby desk, fondles it reverently...and BEAMS at SELINA.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: I see your reputation was not exaggerated.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I've located the others. All but one.
dialog: <i>(shivering)</i>
dialog: I'm surprised you don't catch
dialog: pneumonia -- !
text: With an apologetic smile, the PENGUIN pulls the windows shut.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: My normal body temperature is ninety-two
dialog: degrees. Germs find me inhospitable.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I see why they call you the Penguin.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: They may call me that...but rarely more
dialog: than once. Champagne?
text: She nods. He pours two glasses, hands one to SELINA, raises a
dialog: toast.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: My dear. Here's to the second biggest
dialog: crime in the history of Gotham City.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. POLICE OBSERVATION ROOM - NIGHT
text: COMMISSIONER GORDON and another cop, LT. EDDIE BULLOCK, are in
text: darkened antechamber adjacent to an interrogation room.
speaker_heading: BULLOCK
dialog: It wasn't about the drugs. Whoever it was
text: left thirty kilos sitting on the docks.
text: They're watching, through a two-way glass panel, as a
text: terrified man with a heavily-bandaged face tells his story.
text: It's the lone survivor of the dock massacre, JULIO, and his
text: voice is audible over a concealed intercom:
speaker_heading: JULIO (filter)
dialog: Un silueta negra -- con colmillos, y
dialog: garras -- el demonio. El murcielago.
speaker_heading: MURCIELAGO!
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: What's that he keeps saying?
speaker_heading: BULLOCK
dialog: "Murcielago." -- Bat.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Nonsense. That dock looked like a
dialog: slaughter-house. Batman's never committed
dialog: murder.
speaker_heading: BULLOCK
dialog: We did find this in his back pocket.
text: BULLOCK hands GORDON a CARD. It reads: "THOSE WHO FEED ON THE
text: SOUL OF GOTHAM WILL SUFFER MY WRATH" -- and in lieu of a
text: signature, there's a little black BAT-EMBLEM in the bottom
dialog: corner.
text: While GORDON's staring at it, a POLICEMAN pokes his head in:
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Commissioner? We've got Barrett.
scene_heading: INT. POLICE INTERROGATION ROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: A cubicle down the hall. The splenetic WALTER BARRETT,
text: millionaire industrialist, is fidgeting in his chair as GORDON
text: enters.
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: Fine welcome. These storm troopers of
dialog: yours dragged me away from my coming-home
dialog: party!
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: I'd like to know the meaning of this --
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: I'd like to know how thirty kilos of pure
dialog: cocaine wound up concealed in your
dialog: personal effects.
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: Gordon -- I come from one of the oldest
dialog: and most influential familles in Gotham.
dialog: If you plan to accuse me of smuggling
dialog: drugs, be my guest.
dialog: <i>(long, menacing pause)</i>
dialog: I'll have your badge before you leave this
dialog: room.
text: GORDON weighs the threat. He nods to the COPS in
dialog: attendance...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Book the son of a bitch.
text: GORDON storms out. BARRETT jumps out of his chair, but the
text: COPS restrain him. Outraged, he bats their hands away...
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: I believe I'm still entitled to a phone
dialog: call.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. DOWNTOWN GOTHAM - DAY
text: VICKI with her camera, squeezing off snaps. She's standing
text: behind a SAWHORSE, part of a crowd of onlookers at a downtown
text: DEMOLITION SITE. SURVEYORS and HARDHATS bustle about in a
text: VACANT LOT, a full city block in size, fenced off and strewn
text: with rubble. The only structure still standing is a lone,
text: decrepit TENEMENT BUILDING; a WRECKING BALL is poised above
text: it, ready to strike.
text: A SIGN at one corner of the lot announces a forty-story OFFICE
text: COMPLEX soon to be erected on this site by SHAW CONSTRUCTION,
text: INC. Down below is RANDALL SHAW HIMSELF, in necktie and
text: hardhat, speaking into a WALKIE-TALKIE:
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Come on! Let's move it! We're an hour
dialog: behind as it is!!
text: A few moments later, a CLUSTER OF PEOPLE emerge from the
text: tenement building -- a mixed team of COPS and CONSTRUCTION
text: GOONS who are forcibly removing a DESTITUTE FAMILY from the
text: condenmed building. VICKI watches angrily...
scene_heading: HER POV - TELEPHOTO LENS
text: A quick series of shots: the SQUATTERS wailing and struggling,
text: clinging to the doorways, unwilling to leave. Their few
text: belongings are packed in a couple of CARDBOARD BOXES, which
text: the cops heave rudely out onto the street. Finally, the
text: handcuffs and nightsticks come out...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SHAW - THAT MOMENT - DAY
text: A SURVEYOR grabs SHAW by the arm and points out the woman
text: taking photos in the crowd. SHAW recognizes her instantly.
text: His face turns into a mask of outrage -- as if he's been
dialog: personally betrayed.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Jesus Christ, that's Bruce Wayne's bimbo!
text: He makes eye contact with her. VICKI stares back defiantly.
text: He's about to stroll over and tell her off when a HARDHAT
dialog: signals to him:
speaker_heading: HARDHAT
dialog: Phone call, Mr. Shaw. Guy said it's
dialog: urgent.
speaker_heading: SHAW
scene_heading: <i>(to tbe SURVEYOR)</i>
dialog: Hold the ball. I wanna hear it crash.
text: He climbs into the cab of a nearby TRUCK, where he picks up a
scene_heading: CELLULAR PHONE.
scene_heading: INTERCUT - BARRETT AND SHAW
text: BARRETT's still in custody at the police station -- using his
text: one phone call to contact the construction magnate.
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: It's me, Randall -- Walter Barrett. I
dialog: want you to call my attorney. That was my
dialog: shipment they busted up last night.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Jesus, Walter, I --
dialog: <i>(suddenly puzzled)</i>
dialog: Why are you calling me??
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: It's worse than that. Somebody took my
text: raven.
text: SHAW stares at the phone in horrified disbelief.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON VICKI - THAT MOMENT
text: SHE WATCHES as SHAW climbs out of the truck -- numb, in a
text: daze. He signals to the WRECKING BALL OPERATOR; a WHISTLE
text: blows, and the great iron ball knocks a MAMMOTH HOLE in the
text: facade of the tenement.
text: SHAW doesn't even stick around to watch it. He scurries off
text: to his car at the end of the block. VICKI, highly intrigued,
dialog: gets it all on film...
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - CITY ROOM - DAY
text: VICKI's in a huddle with the Managing Editor, SCHULTZ, showing
text: him her PHOTOS -- SHAW orchestrating the eviction of the
scene_heading: SQUATTER FAMILY.
speaker_heading: SCHULTZ
dialog: Great stuff, but we're looking at a
dialog: shitfight with our beloved publisher. He
dialog: and Shaw...
dialog: <i>(crossing his fingers)</i>
dialog: Old money sticks together.
text: VICKI points to a photo of SHAW racing from the truck to his
dialog: car.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I'd sure like to know what shook him up
text: so. He was out of there like a scared
dialog: rabbit...
text: Just then, a reporter -- WILK -- rushes up excitedly to
text: SCHULTZ's desk.
speaker_heading: WILK
dialog: Got a blind tip from downtown. You know
dialog: that massacre on the docks? Batman.
text: VICKI reacts in astonishment. SCHULTZ's jaw drops -- this is
dialog: hot.
speaker_heading: EDITOR
dialog: Whoa! Is this on the level?
speaker_heading: WILK
dialog: Cops even got a note. "Those who feed on
dialog: the soul of Gotham will suffer my wrath!"
dialog: <i>(grinning; to VICKI)</i>
dialog: Sounds like your pal's cranked it up a
dialog: notch.
text: VICKI starts to protest, but thinks better of it.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ENTRY HALL - EVENING
text: ALFRED opens the door. A BANNER HEADLINE stares him in the
dialog: face:
scene_heading: BATMAN IMPLICATED IN DOCK MASSACRE
dialog: Industrialist Linked to Drug Smuggling Ring
text: VICKI, who's holding up the afternoon paper for ALFRED's
text: inspection, peeks out glumly from behind the masthead.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Seen the late edition?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I'm afraid so, Miss Vale. Master Bruce is
text: sequestered in the cave.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S LIBRARY - A MOMENT LATER - EVENING
text: On their way to the Batcave, ALFRED and VICKI pass through the
text: library. They pause in front of the television -- which is
text: tuned to a PANEL SHOW, with various experts discussing the hot
dialog: issue of the day.
scene_heading: ENVIRONMENTALIST (on TV)
dialog: Walter Barrett's no saint. His factories
text: have been dumping poison into the air and
dialog: water for years. If he is mixed up with
dialog: drugs...
speaker_heading: PUNDIT (on TV)
dialog: That's not the issue. The issue is, do we
dialog: entrust our public safety to some...masked
dialog: vigilante. Does Batman have a license to
dialog: kill?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: <i>(shaking his head)</i>
dialog: Ah, the public. Dishearteningly fickle.
text: VICKI follows ALFRED out. We HOLD on the TV as the CAMERA
text: PANS OVER to the third guest on the panel, loudly demanding
text: air time. He's wearing a RED BERET and a BATMAN SWEATSHIRT:
scene_heading: MIKE SEKOWSKY (on TV)
dialog: Yo, here's the tip, man. Drug dealers are
dialog: scum. If Batman did wax these punks...SO
dialog: WHAT? They deserved it! End of
dialog: discussion.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - A MOMENT LATER - EVENING
text: ALFRED and VICKI arrive; BRUCE gestures for them to keep
text: quiet. He's hunched over a TAPE RECORDER -- and COMMISSIONER
text: GORDON'S VOICE is blaring from a nearby speaker...
speaker_heading: GORDON (O.S.; filter)
dialog: Anyone could've written that note.
scene_heading: INT. GORDON'S OFFICE - THAT MOMENT
text: GORDON's in conference with a number of CITY OFFICIALS --
text: blissfully unaware that anyone might be eavesdropping.
speaker_heading: CITY OFFICIAL I
dialog: And I suppose anyone could've taken out a
text: boatload of armed thugs. A dozen men, Jim
dialog: -- murdered in cold blood --
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Before we forget, Batman's saved hundreds
dialog: of lives!
speaker_heading: CITY OFFICIAL II
dialog: He's still a vigilante. We don't know who
dialog: he is, where he comes from, why he does
dialog: it...
speaker_heading: CITY OFFICIAL I
dialog: Street punks are one thing, Jim. This is
dialog: Walter Barrett -- a personal friend of
dialog: mine!
text: As the conversation continues, CAMERA SLOWLY MOVES IN ON a
text: COMPUTER TERMINAL in the corner. We see the tiny TRADEMARK
text: embossed on the CPU -- "WAYNE TECHNOLOGIES."
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - THAT MOMENT - ON BRUCE
text: as he LISTENS through his concealed bug.
speaker_heading: CITY OFFCIAL II
dialog: You've gotta bring him in, Jim -- at least
dialog: for questioning. It would sure help if we
dialog: could get that mask off...
text: BRUCE shuts the recorder off. He turns to face ALFRED and
speaker_heading: VICKI --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Ladies and gentlemen...I've been framed.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM CITY - NIGHT
text: The BAT-SIGNAL blazing in the night sky. After a beat, the
text: CAMERA TILTS DOWN to a cluster of EXCITED CITIZENS, who point
text: and holler as the BATMOBILE streaks past.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: TWO COPS are parked in an alleyway, watching as the BATMOBILE
text: whizzes past on the street. The DRIVER pulls out behind it as
text: the second COP grabs his radio mike...
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: One-delta-niner -- 10-80 on Riverview
text: north-bound at 33rd -- 10-78, repeat
dialog: 10-78.
speaker_heading: VOICE ON RADIO (filter)
dialog: 10-4, one-delta-niner -- that's a 10-37,
text: repeat 10-37. Backup on the way.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - ON BATMOBILE
text: BARRELING TOWARD US on the street. The SQUAD CAR gains behind
text: it. A SIREN HOWLS; a red-and-blue bubble begins to flash...
text: The BATMOBILE makes a HAIRPIN TURN -- and ACCELERATES.
scene_heading: OVERHEAD ANGLE - THE STREETS
text: As the BATMOBILE rounds the corner and picks up speed, TWO
text: MORE SQUAD CARS scream down the cross street, joining in the
text: pursuit. All at once THICK BLACK SMOKE billows from the back
text: of the Batmobile -- ENVELOPING the police cars, BLINDING THE
dialog: DRIVERS...
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: TWO SQUAD CARS parked in a V-formation -- a makeshift
text: roadblock. ANXIOUS POLICEMEN mill about in front of them.
text: They move into position as the BATMOBILE, still trailing
text: smoke, rounds a corner and careens directly toward them...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BATMOBILE - THAT MOMENT
text: The FRONT FENDER of the Batmobile detaches and EXTENDS itself
text: from the body of the car. It BENDS in the middle; WING-PANELS
text: flip into place, forming an arrowhead-shaped COW-CATCHER.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET - ON ROADBLOCK
text: A SHRIEKING HORN BLARES. The COPS see the Batmobile SPEEDING
text: UP and dive for the sidewalk. The COW-CATCHER slams into the
text: SOUAD CARS, pushes them effortlessly aside, and cruises
text: through the gap.
text: As the PURSUING CARS emerge from the smoke cloud and follow
text: the Batmobile through, we TILT UP to the roof of a nearby
dialog: building --
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - THAT MOMENT
text: -- and realize that the Batmobile's on automatic pilot,
dialog: because BATMAN's been on the roof all along -- watching the
text: action with some dismay.
text: His relationship with the Gotham PD appears to be on shaky
text: ground. He speaks into his voice-activated REMOTE CONTROL
speaker_heading: UNIT:
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Evasive.
text: SIRENS HOWL below as he strolls across the rooftop, lost in
dialog: thought.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE APARTMENT - NIGHT
text: At this height, the SIRENS are a distant insect drone. We're
text: in the palatial digs of RANDALL SHAW, the construction
dialog: magnate. There's obviously money to be made in real-estate
text: development -- because the walls are lined with art, and the
text: floor-to-ceiling windows open on the most spectacular view in
dialog: Gotham.
text: At the moment, SHAW's posing casually in front of his new
text: Brancusi -- which rests on a pedestal near the windows. An
text: UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN in a slinky black dress LOOKS ON, her back
dialog: to the camera...
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: It's a fake.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Hmm. It cost me a half a million dollars.
dialog: You're sure?
speaker_heading: WOMAN
dialog: Absolutely. You see, I...happen to know
text: where the real one is stashed.
text: The WOMAN wanders out of frame as SHAW smiles, impressed. He
text: seems peculiarly nonchalant about the whole deal; at the
text: moment, art is not the first thing on his mind. CAMERA STAYS
text: ON HIM as he pours two glasses of red wine and circles in on
text: his mysterious guest.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: I guess you'd know. I have some "friends"
dialog: in the art world. They say that -- for
dialog: certain hard-to-get items -- you're the
dialog: one to call.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: How flattering.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: They say for the right price...you could
dialog: steal Michelangelo off the Sistine Chapel
dialog: Wall.
speaker_heading: WOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Mr. Shaw. Do you believe everything you
dialog: hear?
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Oh, I'm not one to judge. I admire people
dialog: who take what they want. I'm just curious
dialog: how you do it.
text: SHAW hands her the wine, and for the first time we see her
text: face. It's SELINA KYLE, perching seductively on the arm of
dialog: the sofa...
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I find that the old methods work best.
text: Setting her wine down, flashing her patented Cheshire-cat
text: smile, SELINA moves in on him -- and they go into a deep,
text: passionate kiss. Her long red nails dig into his back; SHAW
text: drops his wine glass, which SHATTERS -- splashing red wine
text: across the polished parquet floor.
scene_heading: INT. PENTHOUSE - SHAW'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: The action's gone horizontal. SELINA, peeled down to a sheer
text: lace teddy, is on the bed atop SHAW -- tickling his throat
text: with quick, lapping kisses. She rolls off suddenly; when he
text: tries to sit up, she pushes him back down with a single
dialog: finger.
text: Sitting on the edge of the bed, she peels off her STOCKINGS,
text: twisting them around into tight cords. With a coy smile she
text: runs her finger in a circle around SHAW's hairy chest -- and
text: then, abruptly, knots one stocking tightly about his wrist and
text: ties it off on the bedpost.
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Hey, what are you doing -- ?
text: He tries to break her grip. She BACKHANDS him sharply across
text: the face.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You're very inquisitive. You'll just have
dialog: to be disciplined.
text: An EDGY SMILE spreads across his face as she binds his other
text: hand to the bedpost. None too quick, he's just caught on that
text: all this is part of SELINA's kinky scene. She crosses quickly
dialog: to the bathroom --
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: You know, I've...I've never really done
dialog: this kind of thing before.
text: -- and reemerges wearing her CATWOMAN mask...which seems
dialog: perfectly appropriate in this context.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I think people should indulge their
dialog: fantasies. Don't you?
text: Now that he's all trussed up, she crosses the room and reaches
text: into an oversized bag. She withdraws an odd-looking chromium
text: BRACE, slips it on over her wrist, and hits a trigger. SIX-
text: INCH STEEL TALONS snick into place. SHAW's dopey smile
text: fades...
speaker_heading: SHAW
dialog: Hey, what are those -- what are you --
text: He lets out an awful, shrill SHRIEK as the camera WHIP PANS
text: away from the bed to a Jackson Pollack on the wall nearby. A
text: SPRAY OF BLOOD spatters across it -- in an aesthetically
text: pleasing way -- and the SHRIEK ends in a LOW GURGLE as we
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BUILDING LOBBY - A FEW MINUTES LATER - NIGHT
text: A SECURITY GUARD is working a crossword at his booth near the
text: entrance of the building. Behind him, a bank of MONITORS show
text: various empty hallways throughout the building. He reaches
text: for his coffee and sees a RED LIGHT flashing on a wall panel
dialog: nearby.
scene_heading: INT. SHAW'S PENTHOUSE - THAT MOMENT
text: The penthouse is THROBBING with the clangorous sound of a
text: BURGLAR ALARM. SELINA is standing by an OPEN WALL SAFE --
text: concealed behind a painting, which has been swung away on
text: hinges -- and she's HOLDING HER EARS, wearing a look of
text: complete exasperation: oh, shit. The GUARD'S VOICE crackles
text: over a nearby intercom:
speaker_heading: GUARD (O.S.; filter)
dialog: Mr. Shaw? What's going on up there? --
dialog: Mr. Shaw?
text: Furious with herself, she reaches inside the safe and extracts
text: a BLACK RAVEN statuette -- identical to the one she took on
text: the docks. She slams the door shut and swings the picture
text: back into place.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: SIRENS echo in the streets. SQUAD CARS make sudden turns and
text: streak off toward SHAW's building.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - HIGH ANGLE - NIGHT
text: Watching the cars from his rooftop vantage, BATMAN raises an
text: ANTENNA mounted on his utility belt and cups one hand to his
text: head. An EARPIECE concealed inside his cowl gives him the
dialog: police frequency:
speaker_heading: DISPATCHER (O.S.; filter)
dialog: -- possible 15 in progress, 188 E. 69th at
dialog: Gotham Park West. Move out. It's Randall
dialog: Shaw. Repeat, all units --
text: BATMAN's eyes widen. He steps to the ledge and pulls a TINY
text: METAL CYLINDER from his belt -- immediately recognizable as
text: part of BRUCE's hydraulic umbrella-gizmo.
text: But it's no umbrella. When BATMAN thumbs the switch, his
text: BLACK CAPE begins to SPREAD and RISE -- stiffening, expanding
text: -- INFLATING itself into a pair of RIGID BLACK BATWINGS.
text: He steps OFF THE LEDGE, INTO MIDAIR -- SOARING SILENTLY ACROSS
text: THE STREET LIKE A HUMAN HANG-GLIDER as the cop cars cruise
text: past far below.
scene_heading: INT. SHAW'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: There's an awful BANGING at the front door. SHAW lies under
text: the bloody sheets, hands folded, staring lifelessly up at the
text: ceiling. SELINA, now dressed in full Catwoman regalia, slings
text: a lightweight KNAPSACK over her shoulders. She picks up the
text: nearest chair, RAMS IT through SHAW's plate-glass window, and
text: clambers out onto the ledge outside.
text: Ten seconds later the COPS burst in. They rush to the bedroom
text: -- spot the shattered window, the inert gory mass on the
dialog: bed --
text: -- but the real shock comes when they glance over at the wall.
text: Painted there, in blood...is a big, red, dripping BAT.
speaker_heading: COP
speaker_heading: JESUS!
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - SHAW'S BUILDING - NIGHT
text: Forty stories up. The CATWOMAN, in a surefooted crouch, she
text: scurries along the ledge -- SPRINGS at a cornice -- and in one
text: lithe motion VAULTS UP onto the ROOF. She scampers across the
text: rooftops, dropping from one to the next with rope and tackle,
dialog: like a mountain climber --
text: -- until she reaches the building at the end of the block.
text: Here she pauses to dig in her knapsack. She pulls out a
text: retractable HOOK at the end of a rope, swings it around,
text: HEAVES IT at the rooftop across the street...
scene_heading: EXT. STREET BELOW - LOW ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: POLICE pile out of cars and race for the entrance, totally
text: oblivious to the odd scene taking place overhead -- where the
text: small, barely-visible figure of a WOMAN, clad entirely in
text: black leather, is doing a TIGHTROPE WALK across the
dialog: intersection.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - A MINUTE LATER - NIGHT
text: The CATWOMAN bounds across snowy rooftops until she decides
text: she's out of danger. Then, weary and exhilarated, she drops
text: to her knees; bathed in moonlight, she preens, stretches,
text: emits eerie little purrs and hisses of pleasure. She's just
text: made a kill and her blood is running high, so she's stopped
text: for a moment of Quality Time.
text: She hears an odd crunching noise two roofs over. Her whole
text: body tenses and -- though her head doesn't move -- her eyes
dialog: dart left.
text: A CAPED SHADOW has just touched down at the end of a line.
text: The gold BAT-EMBLEM on his chest is visible for the briefest
text: of seconds before he steps back into the shadows. She acts
text: like she hasn't noticed...
text: ...but a little smile flickers across her lips just the same.
scene_heading: TIGHT ON BATMAN - THAT MOMENT
text: His eyes widen -- his LIPS PART as he watches her. If it's
dialog: possible to see absolute consternation behind that mask, we're
text: seeing it now.
scene_heading: HIS POV - ON CATWOMAN - THAT MOMENT
text: She still doesn't let on that she's seen him. Instead, she
text: goes to the ledge of the roof and begins to STRUT, like a
text: gymnast on the balance beam -- POSING for him in a little
text: private show -- a strange, self-infatuated, AUTOEROTIC DANCE
text: ROUTINE for BATMAN's benefit.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - THAT MOMENT
text: His jaw is down around his knees. Whoa. He edges forward
text: slightly, as if hypnotically drawn to her...
text: She hears a noise. Stops. Makes a big show of looking left
text: and right. Somehow afraid she'll see him watching, BATMAN
text: jumps back into the shadows. She gathers her things; a small
text: WHITE CARD flutters from her knapsack to the snowy roof, and
text: she VANISHES over the edge.
text: Snapping back to reality, he bolts across the roof just in
dialog: time to see --
scene_heading: EXT. SIDE OF BUILDING - ON CATWOMAN - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: She's rapidly working her way down the side of the building,
text: flipping down from one fire escape to tile next -- a master
text: gymnast. Three stories up, she lands on a railing, then STOPS
text: -- LAUNCHING HERSELF out over the street, making a perfect
text: landing on the roof of a passing BUS.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ON BATMAN - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: BATMAN turns -- and his eyes fall on the WHITE CARD. He
text: kneels to pick it up; a brief three-word MESSAGE is scrawled
dialog: upon it...
text: LOOKING FOR LOVE?
text: He goes goggle-eyed with astonishment. He rushes back to the
text: edge of the roof and sees the BUS just turning toward the
text: entrance to Gotham Park. He's reaching for his grappling-gun,
text: figuring to follow, when a FLOODLIGHT catches him full in the
dialog: face.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS BELOW - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: Down below, the cops are sweeping their beams across the
text: rooftops. Two of them catch a quick glimpse of BATMAN just as
text: he ducks back behind the cornice, out of view.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Hey. You see what I saw...?
text: This sends the astounded COPS rushing to their radios. Right
text: on cue, COMMISSIONER GORDON's car pulls up. LT. BULLOCK,
text: who's already on the scene, fills him in as he climbs out.
speaker_heading: BULLOCK
dialog: It's Randall Shaw. Torn to ribbons. --
dialog: We just made Batman up on the roof.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Oh God.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM PARK - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The BUS rumbles deeper into the snowy park. A BLACK
text: SILHOUETTE springs off the roof into the trees, disappearing
dialog: among the branches...
text: We TRACK WITH the bus as it moves through the park, arriving
dialog: finally at:
scene_heading: EXT. CLEARING IN PARK - SHANTYTOWN - NIGHT
text: The little colony of HOMELESS PEOPLE in their cardboard shacks
text: and lean-tos, still occupying the future site of the Park
text: Towers. MARCHERS and PICKETERS are continuing their protest
text: nearby, and some charitable organization's set up a makeshift
text: soup kitchen on folding tables -- hot coffee and sandwiches.
text: VICKI's on the periphery of the camp, camera in hand. She's
text: trying to persuade a HOMELESS MAN to let his picture be taken.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Please, just one. It's important for
dialog: people to see what's happening.
speaker_heading: HOMELESS MAN
dialog: They don't want to see us, lady. They
dialog: just want us gone -- out of sight, and out
dialog: of mind.
dialog: <i>(mumbling as he wanders off)</i>
dialog: Get worse before it gets better. It
dialog: always does.
text: VICKI TURNS. In the distance, the PICKETERS are shrieking and
text: wailing. A VAN's just pulled up to the edge of the park, and
text: a dozen HARDHATS are elbowing their way through the crowd.
text: All at once they're swarming through shantytown with TIRE
text: IRONS and BASEBALL BATS, overturning the sandwich tables,
text: RIPPING DOWN the shabby tents and lean-tos.
text: Some of the HOMELESS PEOPLE run. Those who resist meet with
text: swift and sudden violence. A MARCHER jumps a hardhat, and
text: gets a baseball bat in the gut for his trouble.
text: VICKI waits for the police sirens, but they don't come. She
text: backs off toward the trees, she begins SNAPPING PHOTOS
text: FRANTICALLY, capturing the carnage on film.
text: A HARDHAT is dismantling a lean-to with his tire iron --
text: sending the terrified family inside scurrying off into the
text: snow -- when he glances up and sees VICKI taking his picture.
text: He points her out to a colleague...
text: ...and suddenly the two of them are RUSHING TOWARD HER with
text: pure cold malice in their eyes. VICKI turns to run, but it's
text: slow going in the snow. She SLIPS and FALLS; her attackers
text: are almost upon her...
text: ...when a SHADOWY FIGURE DIVES OUT OF THE TREES and TACKLES
text: one of the HARDHATS. The FIGURE lands a powerhouse blow to
text: the fallen HARDHATs jaw, knocking him out cold.
text: The second HARDHAT turns and lifts his TIRE IRON. But the
text: FIGURE, with surprising agility, is already rolling out of the
text: way. As he rolls, he grabs the first guy's HARDHAT off his
text: head and brings it up in front of him -- blocking the blow
text: from the second guy's tire iron.
text: In the same motion, he plants a FOOT in the second HARDHAT's
text: belly and sends him REELING BACKWARD, HARDHAT II drops the
text: tire iron, and the FIGURE snatches it out of midair as he gets
text: to his feet. He moves in on the second HARDHAT, BRANDISHING
dialog: the iron --
text: -- and while HARDHAT II is staring at it, the FIGURE HIGH-
text: KICKS HIM in the face. HOP; KICK. HOP; KICK. The FIGURE has
text: nailed him three times squarely on the jaw before he can hit
dialog: the ground.
text: The FIGURE turns toward VICKI. Her eyes go wide with
dialog: astonishment.
text: It's a KID, thirteen or fourteen at the outside, sunken-eyed,
text: grimy-looking, in a torn-and-tattered RAINCOAT. She stares at
text: him for the briefest of instants before he rushes off to the
dialog: aid of his fellow homeless...
text: She can't believe what she's seeing. The KID wades smack into
text: the midst of the remaining HARDHATS, and kicks ass --
text: spinning, pirouetting, kicking, clawing in a furious display
text: of pure athleticism. It seems like he's everywhere at once.
dialog: There's only one other guy in Gotham City who can handle
dialog: himself like this...
text: Rallying behind him, the MARCHERS and HOMELESS PEOPLE snatch
text: bats and tire irons from the fallen HARDHATS -- and the tide
text: turns. The invasion is being repelled. Faced with renewed
text: resistance, the few HARDHATS still left standing TURN TAIL and
text: race off to their VAN.
text: Triumph in shantytown. The MARCHERS and HOMELESS cluster
text: together to lick their wounds -- and the KID, satisfied that
text: everything is under control, turns and sprints off toward the
dialog: trees.
text: But one prostrate HARDHAT is only playing dead. As the KID
text: runs past, the HARDHAT extends a TIRE IRON into his path --
text: TRIPPING HIM, sending him sprawling in the snow. The KID
text: throws up his hands as the HARDHAT prepares to smash down at
dialog: him...
text: CLANG. The HARDHAT drops his tire iron and topples over,
text: BOARDLIKE. The KID looks up and sees VICKI standing there
text: with a baseball bat.
text: He gives her a quick nod of acknowledgement as he gets to his
text: feet -- thanks for returning the favor. He's about to light
dialog: out again when --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: WAIT! Don't be afraid. I wanted to thank
dialog: you. I --
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: <i>(cautiously)</i>
dialog: Twenty.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Twenty bucks.
text: VICKI's mildly taken aback, but she reaches for her purse just
text: the same. She's barely gotten her wallet open when the KID
text: snatches the bill out of her hands. They stare at each other
dialog: for a long moment --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: ...Who are you?
speaker_heading: KID
dialog: Dick.
text: -- and then he's bounding off like a shot. VAULTING up into a
text: tree and vanishing amid the snowy branches. VICKI starts to
text: follow, but there's no way she can keep up. Instead she digs
text: into her CAMERA BAG...
scene_heading: HER POV - THROUGH TELEPHOTO LENS
text: Using the long lens, she tracks the KID's progress through the
text: treetops. She can't actually see him, but occasional chunks
text: of SNOW and ICE are falling to the ground as he jumps from
dialog: limb to limb...
text: For a moment it seems like she's lost him. As she sweeps the
text: lens back and forth, scanning the trees, she catches sight of
text: an EQUESTRIAN STATUE in the distance. She ups the
text: magnification so she can see the plaque on the pedestal. The
text: stone figure on the horse is Union war hero GEN. OLIVER WAYNE
dialog: -- BRUCE's great-grandfather.
text: As luck would have it, the KID drops to earth not ten feet
text: from the statue -- VICKI's got him in her sights again. He
text: looks around cautiously to make sure no one's following, then
text: races toward a STONE BRIDGE which arches between two small
text: hillocks, over a frozen creek.
text: There's a DRAINAGE TUNNEL, four or five feet in diameter,
text: mounted in the bridge abutment, the KID pries off a wire grate
text: and clambers inside, then pulls the grate back into place
text: behind him. Home sweet home.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - ON VICKI - NIGHT
text: as she lowers the lens. Her face is full of conflicting
dialog: emotions. She'd love to corner this boy vigilante and find
dialog: out what his story is. But on the other hand -- even the
dialog: homeless are entitled to their privacy...
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PENGUIN'S AVIARY - NIGHT
text: A CANARY sings in its cage as a BLACK CAT watches transfixed
text: from a nearby chair. The cat arches its back -- waits -- and
text: SPRINGS AT THE CAGE, BATTING at it in midair. The canary
text: SHRIEKS; the cat YOWLS; a WOMAN snatches it up off the floor,
text: cradles it in her arms...
speaker_heading: WOMAN'S VOICE
dialog: Now Hecate. You don't want that scrawny
dialog: little bird --
text: It's SELINA, looking ripe and slinky in a sheer black
text: ensemble. At the desk behind her is the PENGUIN, in his
text: customary cutaway and waist-coat, polishing his new RAVEN. He
text: bares his teeth:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Do you want me to wring that creature's
dialog: neck?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You try it, I'll do the same to you.
dialog: <i>(as he grumbles; bemused)</i>
dialog: I saw him, you know.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Saw who?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Batman. He was dreamy.
text: She strokes the cat, in a reverie. The PENGUIN drops his
text: polishing cloth, startled.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Dreamy?!? Are you insane!? My God --
dialog: <i>(sputtering wildly)</i>
dialog: Are you sure it was him? What did he do?
speaker_heading: SELINA
text: He stood on a roof and watched me. He
dialog: didn't realize I'd seen him. I don't
dialog: think he knew quite what to make of me.
dialog: <i>(smiling)</i>
dialog: But he was definitely interested.
text: This sends the PENGUIN into a frantic round of pacing. (Or
dialog: waddling.)
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: This scheme of yours is backfiring. We
dialog: don't need him on our tails. Do you know
dialog: how much money is at stake here?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Money isn't everything.
dialog: <i>(casually)</i>
dialog: What's the point if we can't enjoy
dialog: ourselves?
text: She chuckles to herself. He stares at her in disbelief -- and
speaker_heading: SQUAWKS.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - MORNING
dialog: The big SIGN over Gotham Square tells us there are only 9
text: shopping days left until Christmas. Down below, BRUCE is
text: walking VICKI to work.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Six-on-one, and he took 'em all out...then
dialog: vanished into a drainage pipe -- right
text: next to the statue of General Wayne.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: My illustrious great-grandfather. Think
dialog: it's the same kid we heard about?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Must be. He reminded me of you.
text: BRUCE chuckles. They pass a NEWSSTAND just outside the Globe
text: building, pausing to stare at the headlines -- which SCREAM:
scene_heading: NEW BAT-MURDER?
text: Batman Suspect in Slaying of Millionaire Developer
dialog: Commissioner Gordon Refuses Comment
text: The accompanying photo is a full-color spread of the BLOODY
text: RED BAT painted on SHAW's wall. BRUCE scowls at VICKI:
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- You work for this rag?
dialog: <i>(snatching up a paper)</i>
dialog: Your boss is calling for Gordon's
dialog: resignation -- unless he brings Batman in
dialog: for questioning...
text: VICKI nudges BRUCE and points at a STOREFRONT across the
dialog: street.
scene_heading: THEIR POV - SOUVENIR SHOP
text: The owner is in the store window, hastily removing all of his
text: Batman merchandise and setting up new displays devoted to
text: TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES and THE SIMPSONS. A MOTHER drags
text: her squirming TODDLER past the entrance -- the kid smells
text: heavy markdowns on Bat-shit, but Mom clearly doesn't
dialog: approve...
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE AND VICKI
text: looking on in dismay. BRUCE crumples the paper in outrage:
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I need a good PR man.
speaker_heading: NEWS VENDOR
dialog: Hey, pal -- you buyin' or borrowin'?
text: With a sullen look, BRUCE tosses the paper back on the rack.
text: VICKI pulls him off toward the entrance of the Globe.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: That's what happens when you go after the
dialog: rich and powerful.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Hey, it wasn't me, remember? I am rich
dialog: and powerful --
text: As he's talking, BRUCE glances back at the newsstand. He sees
text: an AD FLYER tacked up on one side -- "LOOKING FOR LOVE? Find
text: it in the GOTHAM GLOBE PERSONALS."
text: Looking for Love. Eyes widening, he digs in his pocket for a
text: quarter and races back to the newsstand. VICKI keeps
dialog: walking...
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Maybe it's almost...good. In a weird way.
dialog: I mean, Shaw, and Barrett -- if people
dialog: like that were really scared, maybe
dialog: they'd --
text: She suddenly realizes she's talking to herself. She turns
text: around and sees BRUCE back at the newsstand, hurriedly
text: unfolding a copy of the Globe. She marches back and tugs at
dialog: his sleeve.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: Hey, I'm late for work. You can read that
dialog: later.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Quiet. I'm looking for a personal ad.
text: Her face screws up in confusion as BRUCE frantically scans the
dialog: page.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: "Tall, Dark And Handsome -- You saw me on
dialog: the roof 12/16. I was in black; you were
dialog: too."
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Is this some kind of bad joke?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's her. That cat woman, or whatever she
dialog: is.
dialog: <i>(reading aloud)</i>
dialog: "I jumped a bus into Gotham Park hoping
dialog: you'd follow, but you were too shy..."
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What does she want -- a date?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She's trying to contact me. Says she's
dialog: gonna leave me another ad...
text: The two of them exchange a look of utter perplexity. BRUCE's
text: mind is racing; he seems bizarrely aroused -- in a way that
dialog: makes VICKI just a trifle nervous...
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - CITY ROOM - DAY
text: VICKI arrives at her desk and sets her portfolio down. She
text: spots a message in the "in" file. She takes one look at it,
text: and her eyes go wide with RAGE. She storms out in a fury...
scene_heading: INT. PUBLISHER'S OFFICE - A MINUTE LATER - DAY
text: Barging past a phalanx of SECRETARIES, VICKI bursts into the
text: inner office of HARRISON J. PROVOST, publisher of the Globe.
text: He's just opening his mail. He heaves a weary sigh as VICKI
text: BARKS at him:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: WHY DID YOU KILL MY STORY?
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Close the door.
dialog: <i>(waiting for her to calm down)</i>
dialog: Your story isn't news. With Shaw dead --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: But the project's still going ahead! If
dialog: attacking homeless people in the park
dialog: isn't news, I'd like to know what is --
speaker_heading: PROVOST
text: There's a psycho out there in a mask and
dialog: cape -- killing off Gotham's most
dialog: prominent citizens! That's news.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: I've known Randall Shaw all my life. His
text: family is in mourning. And it just so
dialog: happens I don't believe in slandering the
dialog: dead.
text: VICKI FUMES. She turns and stares PROVOST straight in the
dialog: eye.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Mr. Provost -- how much money do you have
dialog: tied up in the Park Tower project?
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Vicki...I'm going to forget you made that
dialog: remark. For the sake of your job, I
dialog: suggest you do the same.
text: VICKI stalks of -- and PROVOST goes back to his mail. He
text: finds an envelope addressed in a shaky, psychotic scrawl, with
text: the word "CONFIDENTIAL" underlined three times in ink. He
dialog: tears it open --
text: -- and HIS FACE TURNS PALE as he stares down at the contents:
text: a small business-sized card, signed with a BAT-EMBLEM...
text: THOSE WHO FEED ON THE SOUL OF GOTHAM
scene_heading: WILL SUFFER MY WRATH
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM HALL OF JUSTICE - DAY
text: WALTER BARRETT and his ATTORNEY emerge onto the front steps of
text: the courthouse. BARRETT is instantly mobbed by REPORTERS.
speaker_heading: REPORTER I
dialog: Mr. Barrett! Any comment on the
dialog: arraignment?
speaker_heading: REPORTER II
dialog: Is it true bail was set at two million
dialog: dollars?
speaker_heading: ATTORNEY
dialog: Stand back! My client has nothing to say
dialog: at this time!
text: The ATTORNEY clears a path for BARRETT, who climbs into a
text: waiting CAR, shielding his face. REPORTERS cluster around
dialog: it...
text: As the car pulls out into traffic, we see a flock of PIGEONS
text: taking wing from their perches on the statues outside the Hall
dialog: of Justice.
scene_heading: OVERHEAD SHOT - ON BARRETT'S CAR
text: PIGEONS fill the frame, swooping down toward the CAR, which is
text: idling at a traffic light far below.
scene_heading: INT. BARRETT'S CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: The liveried DRIVER drums his fingers as he waits for the
text: light to change. BARRETT's in the back, speaking into his
dialog: cellular phone.
speaker_heading: BARRETT
dialog: It's time we called an emergency meeting
dialog: of the Raven Society. Get back to me...
text: Looking troubled, he hangs up. A fat white glob of PIGEON
text: SHIT splatters across the windshield. Seconds later --
text: another SPLAT.
speaker_heading: BARRETT (cont.)
dialog: Damn pigeons.
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: Just washed it, too.
text: The DRIVER reaches for the wiper switch. They hear a tiny
text: DINK as a SOLID PELLET bounces off the windshield.
text: BARRETT and the DRIVER exchange a mystified look. A small,
text: blinking CAPSULE has just lodged in the wiper-blade
dialog: assembly...
scene_heading: OVERHEAD SHOT - ON BARRETT'S CAR
text: Just as the light changes, the CAR EXPLODES into a million
text: fragments -- leaving a BLACKENED CRATER in the middle of the
dialog: intersection.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - DAY
text: TIGHT ON A VIDEO MONITOR -- showing FIRE TRUCKS in the
text: intersection we've just left, hosing down the wreckage of
text: BARRETT's car. BRUCE is watching intently when ALFRED appears
text: behind him.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The Fluegelheim called again, sir. They
dialog: want to know if you'll be attending the
text: opening of the new Egyptian exhibit.
text: BRUCE, still engrossed in his news broadcast, waves ALFRED
dialog: off.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Cancel.
speaker_heading: ANCHORWOMAN (on TV)
dialog: -- and, citing new evidence in the so-
dialog: called string of "millionaire murders,"
dialog: Police Commissioner J.T. Gordon today
dialog: swore out a warrant for the arrest of
dialog: Batman.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: We go now live to Mike Sekowsky,
dialog: spokesperson, Order of the Bat.
speaker_heading: SEKOWSKY
dialog: Jeez! Talk about gratitude -- !!
text: At the sight of SEKOWSKY's face, BRUCE kills the sound in
text: disgust. ALFRED looks on helplessly as he paces the floor of
dialog: the Batcave.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well, Alfred, it's official. I'm a wanted
dialog: man.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: "New evidence"...I've gotta find that
dialog: woman. Did you check the personals?
text: As ALFRED shakes his head no, a BUZZER sounds. They've got a
text: visitor. BRUCE hits a switch on a monitor, and sees
text: COMMISSIONER GORDON'S CAR sitting outside the wrought-iron
text: gates of Wayne Manor.
text: He throws a nervous look at ALFRED. ALFRED speaks into a
dialog: microphone:
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Who's there?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Jim Gordon, Alfred. I've got to see
dialog: Bruce.
text: A spooky development. Does GORDON suspect? After a moment's
text: hesitation, BRUCE nods to ALFRED -- let him in.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mr. Wayne will see you, sir.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S LIBRARY - A MOMENT LATER
text: A curious BRUCE ushers GORDON into the library, gestures
text: toward the liquor cabinet. The Commissioner nods his head no.
text: He's fidgety, ill at ease -- he obviously doesn't want to be
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Sorry to bother you. Bruce -- I'll get
dialog: right down to it. You knew Shaw and
dialog: Barrett --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I saw them occasionally. We all sat on
dialog: the board of the Fluegelheim...
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Did you have any...dealings with them,
dialog: or --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: No. I never liked the way they did
dialog: business.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: The thing is, Bruce, you're all lumped
dialog: together in the public mind -- the Five
dialog: Families of Gotham, that sort of thing --
dialog: and, uh...
dialog: <i>(taking a card from his pocket)</i>
dialog: Harrison Provost got this in the mail.
text: BRUCE examines the card, -- "THOSE WHO FEED," etc. He stares
text: at GORDON in mock-concern, playing it close to the vest...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Then Batman is behind all this.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Batman or a damned good imitation.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Well. He's changed tactics, hasn't he.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: <i>(shrugging; at a loss)</i>
dialog: Shaw, with his high-rises -- Barrett, a
dialog: druglord, major polluter -- they weren't
dialog: exactly model citizens. Who knows, it
dialog: could be some crazy social-conscience kind
dialog: of thing.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You mean he's going after...the root of
dialog: the problem.
text: GORDON shakes his head and gets up to go. BRUCE hands him the
dialog: card.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Let me know if you get one of these.
dialog: We'll put all our resources at your
dialog: disposal.
text: BRUCE nods thoughtfully as ALFRED appears to see the
text: Commissioner out. A moment later, the butler reappears.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Changed my mind, Alfred. I'll be dropping
dialog: in on the Fluegelheim after all.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FLUEGELHEIM MUSEUM - NIGHT
text: It's a party to celebrate the opening of the new Egyptian
text: exhibit, and the Fluegelheim is hopping. BOARD MEMBERS,
text: MUSEUM PATRONS, and SOCIALITES mill about in dinner jackets
text: and evening gowns, making small talk. AN OPEN SARCOPHAGUS has
text: been set up as a wet bar.
text: On a raised concrete platform in the center of the hall,
text: rimmed by a decorative moat, sits an ancient Egyptian SHRINE.
text: The TEMPLE OF BASTET has been moved to Gotham and
text: reconstructed in the Fluegelheim --sandstone walls, fountains,
dialog: statuary and all.
text: Guarding the entrance is a stately bronze statue of the
text: goddess BASTET -- who has the body of a woman and the head of
text: a pointy-eared CAT. She holds an aegis and a sistrum; four
text: tiny KITTENS romp at her feet. BRUCE, who's just arrived, is
text: taking an intense interest in the cat-goddess...
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What is it?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I just had a weird sense of <i>deja vu</i>.
text: He glances over by the sarcophagus and sees PROVOST, the
text: publisher, huddle with ELIOT TIPTREE III, transit magnate --
text: the remaining member of Gotham's "Five Families." The two of
text: them are engaged in some urgent conversation which he can't
dialog: quite make out...
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Harrison -- we really ought to warn Bruce.
dialog: We owe him that much.
text: BRUCE detaches himself from VICKI and strolls toward them.
text: PROVOST and TIPTREE force smiles and wave, affecting an air of
text: nonchalance.
speaker_heading: PROVOST (cont.)
dialog: The man's a space cadet. Let him look out
dialog: for himself.
dialog: <i>(as BRUCE arrives; cheerfully)</i>
dialog: Why, Bruce! What a delightful surprise.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Good to see you two. Looks like the Five
text: Families are suddenly down to three.
dialog: <i>(looking around)</i>
dialog: In fact, if somebody dropped a bomb on
dialog: this room right now --
text: TIPTREE chuckles nervously. PROVOST is even less amused.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Is that your idea of a joke, Bruce?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Not at all. Commissioner Gordon seems to
dialog: think we should all be hiring bodyguards.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE PROVOST
dialog: Oh, that's absurd. I already have.
text: The two of them glower at each other. It's like an outtake
text: from <i>The Newlywed Game</i>. BRUCE shrugs it off and makes a
dialog: vacuous face:
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Thing is, I can't imagine why Batman would
dialog: be after us. Can you?
text: PROVOST and TIPTREE are about to go into another round of
text: hemming-and-hawing when a NEW FACE joins the party. It's
text: SELINA KYLE -- stunning as ever in an extravagantly revealing
text: dress slit up to the armpits. She's holding two glasses of
text: CHAMPAGNE...
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You two look like you need a drink. --
dialog: And is this who I think it is?
text: She flashes BRUCE her most winning, seductive, heavy-artillery
text: SMILE. He BLINKS, temporarily speechless.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Selina Kyle -- Bruce Wayne.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Our absentee board member! I've been
dialog: wanting to meet you forever.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
text: Selina's the new Curator of Antiquities.
dialog: She brought the Temple over block by
dialog: block --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You two won't be terribly upset if I
dialog: borrow Bruce for a moment, will you?
text: Before he can protest, she's linked an arm around his and
text: dragged him off. A nearby FAT MAN spots SELINA, wiggles his
text: eyebrows and WAVES BRIGHTLY. His tongue is practically
text: hanging out -- he's just dying to write her a check. SELINA
scene_heading: SIGHS WEARILY to BRUCE:
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Major contributor. -- I always seem to
dialog: wind up in charge of fund-raising...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I can't imagine why.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Tax year's almost over, you know. I hope
dialog: we can count on your usual generous
dialog: donation.
scene_heading: <i>(indicating PROVOST and TIPTREE)</i>
dialog: Someone's got to set an example for those
text: two tightwads.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: They're proccupied. This string of
dialog: murders --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I asked them if they'd consider including
dialog: us in their wills.
dialog: <i>(chuckling to herself)</i>
dialog: They didn't seem a bit amused...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON VICKI - THAT MOMENT
text: She's making small talk with a bunch of STUFFED SHIRTS and
text: their overdressed WIVES. She glances across the room at the
text: statue of Bastet, sees SELINA draped all over BRUCE. A frown
text: crosses her face...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BRUCE AND SELINA - THAT MOMENT
text: She's still clinging to his arm as they stare up at the
dialog: statue.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: -- and this is my good friend Bastet, the
dialog: Egyptian Cat Goddess.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I think we've already met. -- This is
dialog: quite an expedition you've put together.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I'm glad you think so. I have to say,
dialog: Bruce -- you're not at all what I
dialog: expected.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Sorry to disappoint you.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Oh, it's not that. Not at all. It's just
dialog: that I'd always heard you were...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: <i>(coyly)</i>
dialog: Oh...sort of a...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: <i>(smiling; fascinated)</i>
dialog: No. Come on. What?
text: BRUCE's state of mounting infatuation is abruptly shattered
text: when VICKI sidles up alongside him and -- territorially --
text: takes his other arm. The women exchange big, toothy, plastic
text: smiles; stranded in the middle, BRUCE realizes they're waiting
dialog: for him to introduce them.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oh. Selina Kyle -- my friend Vicki Vale.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: The photographer. I've seen your pictures
dialog: in the Gazette.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: The Globe.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Oh, that's right. The tabloid one. --
dialog: What an original dress!
text: VICKI, still smiling, cocks an eyebrow at BRUCE. He senses
text: trouble coming and tries to head it off at the pass.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Selina supervised the reconstruction of
dialog: the temple. Brought it back from Egypt...
text: stone by stone.
speaker_heading: VICKI
text: Really. She must be awfully tired.
scene_heading: <i>(to SELINA)</i>
dialog: How'd you get to be in charge of a huge
dialog: project like this?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It was easy. I slept with the Pharoah.
text: She laughs at her own joke. VICKI responds with a dry little
text: chuckle of her own. SELINA gives BRUCE a SHARP YANK on the
dialog: sleeve.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Excuse us, won't you, sweetheart? We have
dialog: some boring museum business to talk about.
text: VICKI fumes. BRUCE shrugs apologetically as SELINA drags him
text: off out of earshot.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: I. Short leash.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Pull in the claws, okay? She's really
dialog: terrific.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I'm sorry, Bruce. Sometimes I get a
dialog: little...aggressive, you know?
dialog: <i>(handing him a card)</i>
dialog: Look, I need to talk to you. Come by
dialog: sometime. I'll give you the private tour.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wait. Let me explain about Vicki --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: <i>(shushing him)</i>
dialog: I understand. Anyone who's that
dialog: protective must have a pretty good reason
dialog: for it.
text: She shoots him one last smile -- sly, conspiratorial,
text: unmistakably juicy. Then she's off in pursuit of another
text: major funder. BRUCE is thoughtfully turning the card over in
text: his hands when VICKI rejoins him.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: How's "business"?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Relax, okay? I like you better.
text: He scans the room, trying to find PROVOST and TIPTREE. No
dialog: luck.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: If you're looking for your fellow
dialog: millionaires, they left some time back.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT
text: The roof of the Gotham Globe. A STARLING circles overhead for
text: a moment -- then DIVES down an exposed VENTILATION SHAFT.
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM GLOBE - THAT MOMENT
text: TWO ARMED BODYGUARDS are standing watch outside an office.
text: Brass letters on the door read "J. HARRISON PROVOST,
scene_heading: PUBLISHER."
scene_heading: INT. PROVOST'S OFFICE - THAT MOMENT
text: PROVOST, agitated, working late. He speaks, <i>sotto voce</i>, into
dialog: the phone:
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Don't worry about that. I've had the
dialog: office swept for bugs. No one's
dialog: listening...
scene_heading: INT. TIPTREE'S LIBRARY - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: TIPTREE in his paneled study at home. There's an open bottle
text: on the table and he's been hitting the sauce -- hard. His
speaker_heading: VOICE QUAVERS:
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: It's just so -- unfair. I mean...it was
dialog: over a century ago. It's not like we're
dialog: responsible.
dialog: <i>(hollow-eyed)</i>
dialog: How could he know? How could Batman know
dialog: about the Raven Society??
scene_heading: INT. OFFICE - ON PROVOST - THAT MOMENT
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Who knows and who cares. The point is,
dialog: it's happened...
text: He hears a CHIRP and looks up. It seems to be coming from a
text: HEATING VENT on the wall. But then it stops, so he resumes
dialog: his conversation --
speaker_heading: PROVOST (cont.)
dialog: I'm clearing out of the country, and I'm
dialog: taking the raven with me. I suggest you
dialog: do the same.
scene_heading: INT. HEATING VENT - THAT MOMENT
text: In the metal shaft on the other side of the grate is a tiny
text: BIRD -- the same one we saw flying down the air shaft. Now
text: that we've got a close-up view, we can see the thin BATTERY
text: PACK wired to its underbelly...and the MINIATURE MICROPHONE
text: taped to its leg.
speaker_heading: PROVOST (O.S.)
dialog: I'll tell you how to reach me. And don't
dialog: repeat this to anyone.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. PENGUIN'S LAIR - DAY
text: The PENGUIN stands over his indoor penguin pool. He's wearing
text: rubber gloves, feeding LIVE FISH from an ice chest to his
text: arctic birds. The vents in the windows are open, and the
text: climate in the room is downright icy as SELINA's wrapped in
text: fur, stroking her pet cat:
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: He's just another rich idiot.
dialog: <i>(chuckling to herself)</i>
dialog: The odd thing is, he didn't seem a bit
dialog: concerned.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Then he is an idiot.
speaker_heading: SELINA
text: He lives in some big sprawling manor.
dialog: I'll have to get inside, scope it out...
dialog: see where he's got the raven stashed.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: How do you plan to do that?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: How do you think!
text: A feline smile from SELINA. The PENGUIN chuckles to himself,
text: lobs a FISH out over the pool. A swooping GULL snatches it
text: out of the air before it hits the water. FRICK arrives in the
dialog: doorway.
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: It's Mr. Provost, sir. He's planning to
text: embark on an unscheduled Christmas
dialog: vacation.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Good! That should save us a trip to the
dialog: bank.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. FLUEGELHEIM - BACK ROOM - DAY
text: A huge open room cluttered with all kinds of junk:
text: archaeologist's tools, restoration equipment, etc., plus a
text: healthy assortment of curios and oddities from all over. This
text: is SELINA's private domain. CAMERA TRACKS past a glass case
text: full of ugly, withered, turdlike specimens...
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What have we got here?
speaker_heading: SELINA
text: Mummified cats. Bastet's sacred animal.
dialog: They were buried by the thousands at
dialog: Bubastis. -- Oh, careful!
text: BRUCE FREEZES with his hand poised over a set of four earthen
text: JARS. Each has a lid carved in the shape of a HEAD: ape,
dialog: jackal, man, falcon.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
text: Canopic jars. In the process of
dialog: mummification, the internal organs were
text: buried separately.
dialog: <i>(pointing to each jar in turn)</i>
dialog: Lungs -- stomach -- liver -- intestine --
text: BRUCE withdraws his hand with a bemused shudder.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You're in a gruesome line of work.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Keeps me interested. And that's not easy
dialog: to do...
text: BRUCE's attention turns to a crumbling statuette of an odd
text: beast: a WINGED LION with the head of a FALCON.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: This one I know. It's a gryphon, right?
speaker_heading: SELINA
text: Very good. A mythical demon, half-bird,
text: half-lion...sweeping down from the sky to
dialog: deliver retribution and justice.
text: BRUCE nods. He can dig it. He regards the gryphon for a long
text: moment and CHUCKLES.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Poor guy. Birds and cats -- you wouldn't
dialog: think the two halves would cooperate.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Only under certain circumstances.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: I'm really glad you came, Bruce. I was
dialog: afraid I'd given you the wrong impression.
dialog: Or maybe it was the right impression.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What was it you wanted to talk to me
dialog: about?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Your collection. I'd love to see it. I
dialog: mean, everyone says you've got a
dialog: fabulous --
text: She breaks off in midstream and chuckles to herself. She toys
text: demurely with her equipment. She looks up at BRUCE and
text: switches tactics -- going for the direct approach. BRUCE
dialog: braces himself...
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Mainly I just wanted an excuse to see you
dialog: again. Does she know you're here --
dialog: Vicki?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: <i>(shrugging)</i>
dialog: No.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It must be strange. Having all that
dialog: power, and money -- never really knowing
dialog: if that's what people are attracted to.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What are you attracted to?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I think you're a little bit nuts.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: I think you're a little -- bored with your
dialog: life. Having everything you want. No
dialog: variety, no...danger. And every once in a
dialog: while you need to take a risk. Shake it
dialog: all up.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Maybe by...coming here today.
text: She leans back against a crate, moistens her lips. She's
text: letting him have it with both barrels.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: That's one thing I can give you, Bruce --
dialog: danger -- a little something you can't get
text: at home.
text: BRUCE hesitates -- but the lure is irresistible. He moves
text: forward slowly; SELINA's eyes close; their lips draw slowly
dialog: closer...
text: ...and he SNEEZES IN HER FACE. She backs off in shock as he
text: covers his face. His eyes are watering and he's WHEEZING.
text: She rushes over --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Are you okay?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Is there a cat in here?
text: Right on cue, SELINA's black cat HECATE lets out a loud MEOW
text: -- and STRETCHES against BRUCE's pants leg. He brushes the
text: animal aside and it LEAPS into SELINA's arms. BRUCE sniffles
text: uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Get it away!
text: She drops the cat, which scampers off. BRUCE rubs his eyes.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Poor thing. You're allergic!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah, cats...ever since I was a kid...
dialog: <i>(snorting and weeping)</i>
dialog: Look, I'd better get some fresh air.
dialog: Maybe another time, okay...
text: He heads for the door before SELINA can stop him. He's gone,
text: but she knows she's left a dent in his armor. She smiles in
text: bemusement as HECATE jumps into her arms and PURRS.
scene_heading: EXT. FLUEGELHEIM - A MOMENT LATER - DAY
text: BRUCE stumbles out the museum feeling mildly discombobulated.
text: He marches down the front steps past a NEWSSTAND -- where he
text: stops to buy a copy of the afternoon GLOBE.
text: He opens it to the PERSONAL ADS and finds what he's been
dialog: waiting for:
text: TALL, DARK, AND HANDSOME -- Christmas is coming.
dialog: Why don't we trim the tree together?
text: This puzzles him for a moment -- until he looks up the street.
text: In the distance, at the very center of Gotham Square, WORKMEN
text: are stringing lights around an enormous CHRISTMAS TREE, almost
text: fifty feet tall.
text: The LIGHTING CEREMONY is an annual event in Gotham. BRUCE
text: smiles slightly, tucks the paper under one arm and walks to
dialog: his car.
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - NIGHT
text: SNOW falls on a huge CROWD gathered around the big tree. The
text: tree won't be lit for another twenty minutes or so, and so the
text: ONLOOKERS are singing CHRISTMAS CAROLS from printed lyric
dialog: sheets.
text: A BAND is playing on a makeshift ORCHESTRA PLATFORM erected in
text: front of the tree, leading the crowd in a spirited rendition
text: of "God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen." The Square is rocking with
dialog: good will toward men. When they get to the part about saving
dialog: us all from Satan's power --
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP OVERLOOKING SQUARE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: -- the CAMERA TILTS UPWARD to BATMAN, watching the action from
text: his usual gargoyle's perch. He's scanning the streets and the
text: rooftops, waiting tor the CATWOMAN to make her move --
dialog: whatever it is.
text: He glances at the building directly across the square from
text: him. On the roof is a neon sign reading Gotham City Globe in
text: ornate old-English letters -- and above that, a ROTATING METAL
text: SCULPTURE of the world turning. His eyes rove downward along
text: the facade of the building...
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM GLOBE - THAT MOMENT
text: At street level, an ARMORED CAR has pulled up in front of the
text: Globe offices. THREE SECURITY GUARDS with rifles climb out of
text: the ARMORED CAR, followed by a FOURTH -- who has an OBLONG BOX
text: handcuffed to his wrist. Of course, we can't see what's
dialog: inside, but to those of us in the know the box looks just
text: about the right size for a RAVEN STATUETTE.
text: The GUARDS scan the street and enter the building without
text: incident. As they do, a NEWSPAPER DELIVERY VAN crosses the
text: frame; mounted on its side is an ADVERTISING PLACARD which
dialog: reads:
scene_heading: BATMAN: HERO OR MENACE?
dialog: Read All About It in the GOTHAM GLOBE!
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ON BATMAN
text: He watches with some curiosity. An armored car: is this some
text: part of the CATWOMAN's scheme? But no...the GUARDS are safely
text: inside the building, and the CAR is leaving. He settles back
dialog: to wait.
scene_heading: INT. NEWSPAPER DELIVERY VAN - THAT MOMENT
text: The innocuous-looking VAN rounds the corner of the Globe
text: building. FRICK is at the wheel, FRACK is riding shotgun, and
text: the PENGUIN is between them, peering out eagerly through the
dialog: windshield.
text: They turn into the Globe's BASEMENT GARAGE -- where dozens of
text: similar vans are parked at the LOADING BAYS. Just part of the
dialog: fleet...
scene_heading: INT. PROVOST'S OFFICE - A MOMENT LATER
text: The quartet of SECURITY GUARDS arrive at PROVOST's office.
text: The publisher has already packed his suitcases for a speedy
text: getaway. The LEAD GUARD -- the one cuffed to the RAVEN BOX --
text: sets his precious cargo on a desk and stands discreetly at
text: arm's length while PROVOST unlocks it and checks its contents.
text: Satisfied, he slams it shut. He reaches into his top drawer
text: for an ENVELOPE, which he hands to his PERSONAL SECRETARY.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Open this in an hour. Phone my wife and
dialog: tell her where to meet me.
dialog: <i>(to the GUARDS; edgily)</i>
dialog: No trouble on the way, I take it?
speaker_heading: LEAD GUARD
dialog: No sir, Mr. Provost. We came straight
text: from the bank vault.
speaker_heading: GUARD II
dialog: 'Copter should be just touching down.
dialog: We'll have you safely out of here in no
dialog: time.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ON BATMAN
text: "Here Comes Santa Claus" echoes up from the streets. BATMAN
text: watches as a COPTER descends toward the HELIPAD on the roof of
dialog: the Globe...
scene_heading: INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE OFFICE - A MOMENT LATER
text: PROVOST and the LEAD GUARD with the raven box are at an
text: elevator bank. The other GUARDS head for a stairwell.
speaker_heading: GUARD II
dialog: We'll check the stairs. See you on the
dialog: roof.
text: The LEAD GUARD starts to press the UP button, but PROVOST
text: pulls a key from his pocket instead:
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: No -- my private elevator. It's safer.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - THAT MOMENT
text: shooting DOWN on the car as it rises. The shaft above it is
text: filled with BIRDS -- starlings, crows, pigeons and the like,
text: swooping and gliding among the gears and cables...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF OF GLOBE BUILDING - THAT MOMENT
text: In BG, the helicopter on its pad, idling noisily, the rotors
text: still spinning. In FG, the small dormer-like structure that
text: houses the STAIRWAY. The metal access door opens, and the
text: first of the GUARDS steps warily out, rifle at the ready. He
text: smiles back at his pal.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: No way. They don't pay us enough to
dialog: tangle with Batm--
text: A black-gloved, CHROME-TALONED HAND snakes around the edge of
text: the dormer and RAKES ACROSS HIS THROAT...
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: SWEAT beads up on PROVOST's lip as the GUARD hits the up
text: button and the car begins to rise. Suddenly, the LIGHTS GO
text: OUT. The car stops with a lurch.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: What is it?? What's happening??
text: Suddenly, there in the darkness, they hear a series of loud
text: POPPING SOUNDS...which could be gunfire...
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - THAT MOMENT - ON CROWD
text: singing "Here Comes Santa Claus" at the top of their lungs.
text: Happy faces beam. No one hears anything unusual over the
dialog: music...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ACROSS STREET - ON BATMAN
text: BATMAN straining to listen. We get another faint series of
text: POPS -- barely audible over the CAROLING from below, and the
text: loud PUTT-PUTT-PUTT of the helicopter blades.
text: He can't really be sure he's heard anything at all. He scans
text: the roof of the Globe building, but he can't see what's
text: happening beyond the big steel globe sculpture and the neon
dialog: sign...
scene_heading: EXT. GLOBE BUILDING - ROOFTOP - THAT MOMENT
text: The CATWOMAN lets fly with another burst of automatic fire
text: from the dead GUARD's rifle. The helicopter is still idling,
text: but no one's left to fly it -- the rooftop is littered with
dialog: stiffs...
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: PITCH BLACK. Pre-verbal GROANS and MURMURINGS OF FEAR issue
text: from the darkness. An EERIE RED LIGHT kicks on -- the
text: emergency generators -- and we see PROVOST backed up in a
text: corner of the car, twitching and jumping like a crazed
text: spastic. The GUARD, in a futile effort to placate him, points
text: up at the LIGHT:
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: There. Mr. Provost. See? The
dialog: generator's kicked in. It's just an
dialog: electrical problem.
text: PROVOST is only marginally consoled. They hear a strange
text: TWITTERING NOISE in the shaft above them...
text: PROVOST starts babbling again. The GUARD slaps him across the
text: face. But the TWITTERING has him a bit concerned as well. He
text: stares up at the ceiling of the car as he PUNCHES BUTTONS on
text: the panel; with another LURCH, the car begins to move.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: There. See? It's moving. We're fine.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: It's going down. We're going DOWN!!!
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - THAT MOMENT
text: The BIRDS in the shaft have all ROOSTED on the TOP OF THE CAR.
text: They're patiently riding it down as it descends...
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: The car stops again. PROVOST is totally losing it. The
text: exasperated GUARD grabs him and SHAKES HIM.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Okay, Mr. Provost -- I'm gonna have a look
dialog: through the trap door. But I need you to
dialog: help me. Okay? You have to help.
text: PROVOST nods and tries to get a grip on himself. The GUARD
text: looks up at the trap door in the ceiling of the car. He can't
dialog: reach it...
text: He uncuffs the BOX containing PROVOST'S RAVEN from his wrist
text: -- and STANDS on it. Still short. Unholstering his gun and
text: using it as a prod, he can almost reach the trap door. He
text: JUMPS UP and, poking with the gun, manages to dislodge the
text: panel slightly.
text: More TWITTERING. PROVOST and the guard look up through the
text: tiny crack in the ceiling and see nothing but darkness.
speaker_heading: GUARD
dialog: Probably just some bird that's gotten in
dialog: the shaft. Now calm down. You'll have to
dialog: give me a boost.
text: The GUARD climbs back atop the raven box. PROVOST gives him a
text: boost and he manages to catch hold of the lip of the trap
dialog: door.
speaker_heading: GUARD (cont.)
dialog: Okay, help me out...steady...
text: PROVOST wraps both arms around the GUARD's wriggling LEGS and
text: tries to hoist him upward.
scene_heading: INT. SHAFT - ON ROOF OF CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: From a vantage level with the roof of the car, we see the
text: GUARD'S FINGERS, clinging to the lip of the trap door. Now
text: his HEAD rises into view, pushing the panel aside as he pulls
text: himself upward.
text: He peers around. His BROW wrinkles as he sees a bizarre sight
text: -- PASSELS of SQUAWKING BIRDS, walking back and forth in front
text: of him, STRUTTING and PREENING mere inches from his face...
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: The bottom half of the GUARD dangles from the ceiling.
text: PROVOST still has his arms wrapped around the GUARD's knees.
text: All at once, the GUARD begins to SCREAM -- his body JERKS and
text: his legs KICK WILDLY. Still PROVOST struggles to hang on --
text: even as BLOOD spatters across the top of his bald dome...
text: Finally, the GUARD's violent spasms are too much. PROVOST
text: trips over the raven box, stumbles backward and lands on his
text: ass in a corner of the car. The GUARD tumbles in a heap to
text: the elevator floor, his face PECKED and CLAWED beyond
text: recognition, his eyes gone altogether.
text: PROVOST lets out a series of SHRIEKS. He peers at the open
text: trap door, sees the BIRDS staring curiously down at him, and
text: SHRIEKS AGAIN.
text: The EMERGENCY TELEPHONE rings. He stares at it. It rings
text: again. Shielding his eyes and screwing up his courage,
text: PROVOST crawls across the floor and reaches for the receiver.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (V.O.; filter)
text: Sixteenth floor. Linens, housewares,
dialog: ladies' lingerie!
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: W-who is this??
scene_heading: INT. GLOBE - BASEMENT LOADING BAY - THAT MOMENT
text: NEWSPAPER DELIVERY VANS are parked in neat rows -- all
text: driverless. FRICK is sitting with a boxful of electrical
text: equipment next to a bank of ELEVATORS; all the cars have been
text: LOCKED OPEN here in the basement, except for ONE -- PROVOST's
text: private elevator, the doors to which are still closed. The
text: PENGUIN stands beside it, speaking into a RED PHONE.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Mr. Provost? If you want to get out of
dialog: that car alive, I suggest you follow my
dialog: instructions to the letter.
text: As he talks, we see various NEWSPAPER EMPLOYEES sprawled on
text: the concrete nearby, DEAD. A CORRUGATED METAL DOOR has been
text: lowered over the LOADING BAY, separating the newspaper
text: production staff from the VAN POOL. They're trapped on the
text: other side. BANGING AWAY LOUDLY on the door...
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
text: SHUT UP IN THERE.
dialog: <i>(calmly; into phone)</i>
dialog: You should see a cord hanging just behind
dialog: you.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: PROVOST looks over his shoulder and sees the aforementioned
text: CORD descending through the trap door.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Yes -- yes, I see it --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (V.O; filter)
dialog: Tie the cord to the handle of your box.
text: PROVOST lets the phone drop. He grits his teeth, but hastens
text: to obey. As he's knotting the cord around the handle of the
text: box, a DINKY BIRD flutters down through the trap and sends him
text: into a panic. Practically weeping, he reaches for the phone.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (V.O.; filter)
dialog: When you're done, I want you to give two
text: sharp yanks on the cord.
text: Cowering in terror, PROVOST reaches for the cord and yanks it
dialog: twice.
speaker_heading: PROVOST
dialog: Who are you?? Why are you doing this??
scene_heading: INT. LOADING BAY - ON PENGUIN
text: Behind him, FRICK and FRACK are pulling on RED BERETS and
scene_heading: BATMAN SWEATSHIRTS -- Order of the Bat gear. FRICK climbs
text: into a NEWSPAPER DELIVERY VAN and starts the engine.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Well, Mr. Provost, I guess you could call
dialog: me an irate reader. And to be perfectly
dialog: frank -- I'm doing this because I hate
dialog: Garfield.
text: Chuckling, the PENGUIN holds a SONIC DEVICE up to the
text: mouthpiece of the phone.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: A SHRILL WHINE emanates from the receiver. All at once, the
text: elevator car is FULL OF BIRDS -- squawking wildly, flinging
text: themselves against the wall, going insane in the tiny confined
dialog: space.
text: PROVOST is screaming like a madman. The birds are in his
text: hair, his face -- everywhere. He fights his way over to the
text: panel and begins punching buttons in a frenzy...
text: All at once the car PLUNGES DOWNWARD. It's as if the floor
text: has DROPS AWAY beneath PROVOST's feet -- he's in FREE-FALL.
scene_heading: INT. LOADING BAY - ON PENGUIN
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Going down!
text: He hangs up the phone and steps a discreet distance back from
text: the ELEVATOR DOORS.
scene_heading: INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - THAT MOMENT
text: The RAVEN BOX dangles from its cord in FG as the CAR rockets
text: uncontrollably downward. A steady stream ot BIRDS are making
text: a quick exit from the trap door in the roof...
scene_heading: INT. TOP-FLOOR LANDING - THAT MOMENT
text: The CATWOMAN's on a landing near the stairwell, just below the
text: dormer that leads to the roof. She pries open a pair of
scene_heading: ELEVATOR DOORS...
text: ...and a FLOCK of BIRDS pours out of the empty shaft, making
text: for the open ACCESS DOOR a half-story above. She reaches
text: inside, finds the cord attached to the RAVEN BOX, and reels it
dialog: in.
text: She rips off the lock and opens the box for a quick look at
text: her trophy. It's there, all right -- another RAVEN just like
text: the first two. An awful CRASH, from twenty-five stories down,
text: RATTLES THE SHAFT...
text: She makes a disgusted face, grabs the RAVEN, and bolts for the
dialog: roof.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP ACROSS STREET - ON BATMAN
text: He watches in puzzlement as a VAST FLOCK OF BIRDS takes flight
text: from the Globe roof across the square. Something weird is
text: definitely going on. He's about to abandon his post --
text: -- but down below, the CAROLERS have stopped CAROLING. The
text: big tree's about to be lit, and they're counting off the
dialog: seconds:
speaker_heading: CROWD
dialog: Ten! Nine!...
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - CORNER NEWSTAND
text: A ramshackle kiosk at street level. The NEWS VENDOR has
text: stepped out onto the sidewalk to watch the tree festivities.
text: A GLOBE DELIVERY VAN, its side bearing the "BATMAN -- HERO OR
text: MENACE?" advertisement, cruises past and dumps a bundle of
text: papers on the curb.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - ON CROWD AT TREE
text: EXCITEMENT is BUILDING as the seconds tick off:
speaker_heading: CROWD
dialog: ...Three! Two! One!
text: The CHRISTMAS LIGHTS come on, and the CROWD breaks into
text: CHEERS. The ORCHESTRA strikes up a sprightly version of
text: "JINGLE BELLS."
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - ON NEWSTAND
text: The NEWS VENDOR is applauding and singing along like everyone
text: else when a second newspaper van rumbles past...
speaker_heading: NEWS VENDOR
dialog: Hey! No! I aleady got a --
text: He spots TWO MASKED MEN in the doorway of the van -- wearing
text: RED BERETS and BAT-SHIRTS. They shove a BODY out the door --
text: The mutilated corpse of HARRISON PROVOST lands on the sidewalk
text: with a THUD -- right beside a bundle of NEWSPAPERS which read
scene_heading: "BATMAN MURDER SPREE BAFFLES POLICE."
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - ON VAN - MOVING
text: The NEWS VENDOR chases after the VAN, but it's already rounded
text: a corner and is cruising along the periphery of Gotham Square.
text: The CROWD is still singing merrily, unaware of its presence --
text: -- until the BACK DOORS fly open -- and a swarm of RABID,
text: CHITTERING BATS screech out into the midst of the crowd!!
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - ON CROWD AT TREE
text: The CAROLERS break into MASS HYSTERIA as HIDEOUS BATS swoop
text: down from above, CLAWING at their heads and shoulders.
text: ORCHESTRA MEMBERS drop their instruments and stagger off the
text: BAND PLATFORM, falling into the branches of the giant
dialog: Christmas tree.
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - ON SIDEWALKS
text: CHRISTMAS SHOPPERS are teeming in and out of nearby STORES.
text: They drop their SHOPPING BAGS and race about in utter CHAOS as
scene_heading: the bats attack. WOMEN SCREAM. CHILDREN SCREAM. MEN SCREAM
speaker_heading: TOO.
text: A MAN staggers backward through a GLASS STOREFRONT and lands
text: on his butt in a WINDOW DISPLAY -- a big mechanical SANTA
text: CLAUS on his North-Pole throne, chuckling merrily in a
text: prerecorded voice: "HO HO HO." The MAN STRUGGLES WILDLY as
text: the BATS converge on him.
scene_heading: INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - THAT MOMENT
text: HORRIFIED SHOPPERS scatter through the aisles as the BATS pour
text: in through the broken window. WOMEN lined up for a FREE
text: MAKEOVER squeal in panic as BATS arrive to rearrange their
dialog: hairdos.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOP - ON BATMAN
text: He stares down stunned at the PANDEMONIUM raging below. He
text: glances across the street...and sees the TINY SILHOUETTE of a
text: WOMAN standing atop the cast-iron GLOBE SCULPTURE, LAUGHING at
text: the chaos, TAUNTING him.
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - OVERHEAD ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: A few blocks away from Gotham Square. SIRENS HOWL. There's a
text: steady stream of COP CARS speeding toward the site of the
text: disturbance. One vehicle is moving in the opposite direction,
text: against traffic -- a NEWSPAPER DELIVERY VAN.
scene_heading: EXT. GLOBE BUILDING - ROOFTOP - A MOMENT LATER
text: BATMAN touches down on the roof and stares in horror at the
text: CORPSES strewn across the helipad. A dying GUARD raises a
dialog: shaky hand...
text: BATMAN crouches beside him. A GURGLE comes up from his throat
text: and a bubble of BLOOD swells on his lips. All at once he
text: hears a WOMAN'S VOICE from the shadows of the GLOBE
text: SCULPTURE...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Some people just can't take discipline.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: Go ahead. Finish 'em off...
text: His head jerks up. He can't see anything. A sudden WHOOSHING
text: noise, and now the voice is coming from the other side of the
dialog: roof.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: You might as well. You're going to get
dialog: blamed for it anyway.
text: He stands. He gets a quick glimpse of a FELINE SHADOW
text: springing past a skylight; she's jumping all around the roof,
text: clinging to exposed pipes and fixtures. He reaches for a
dialog: Batarang.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Oh, come on, angel. You know you want to.
dialog: <i>(purring loudly)</i>
dialog: Besides -- I want to see how you do it!
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Who are you?
text: He's barely gotten it out when she SLAMS INTO HIM from behind,
text: feet first, knocking him to the rooftop. He tries to get up,
text: but she comes at him with a couple of CARTWHEELING KICKS,
text: knocking him back into a cornice. He ducks right just as a
text: SHARP SPIKED HEEL strikes the exposed brick a mere three
text: inches from his throat.
text: He catches her leg, upends her -- but she somersaults away and
dialog: lands on her feet. Cats always do...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: My, aren't we frisky tonight.
text: He flings the BATARANG. It CLANGS into the big NEON SIGN as
text: she SPRINGS up into the darkness, out of reach. GLASS TUBING
text: shatters and SPARKS FLY as she calls down from the shadows --
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: I should tell you -- I've got nine lives
dialog: to play with -- and you've only got one...
text: He turns -- she drops DIRECTLY ONTO HIM -- and locked in a
text: death grip, they STAGGER BACKWARDS across the roof, directly
text: toward the HELICOPTER. The huge ROTOR BLADES are still
dialog: turning...
text: BATMAN ducks instinctively and the CATWOMAN breaks free --
text: FALLING BACKWARD onto the roof. It's a strategic move: when
text: he rushes at her, she BRACES HERSELF against the ground and
text: KICKS UPWARD with startling force.
text: This time the spiked heel connects -- LIFTING BATMAN off his
text: feet, KNOCKING HIM BACKWARD into the TAIL of the HELICOPTER.
text: He slumps there, stunned -- and before he knows it, she's on
dialog: him.
text: She grabs his THROAT with one hand and clamps the other around
text: his CROTCH. He tries to break her grip, but she's just as
text: strong as he is. And she's LIFTING him -- forcing him upward,
text: toward the REAR STABILIZING ROTOR on the tail of the
dialog: helicopter!
text: The rear ROTOR BLADES WHINE LIKE A BUZZSAW as his head rises
text: perilously closer. At the last possible instant, he grabs a
text: handful of her HAIR -- YANKS IT as hard as he can --
text: With a YOWL, she releases him. They tumble to the roof and
text: she DIVES ATOP HIM. Her TALONS click into place -- he sees
text: them poised directly above his EYES --
text: -- but manages to slam an ELBOW under her chin before she can
text: strike. Now they're disentangled; they get up groggily and
dialog: circle each other...
text: SOMEONE IS BANGING on the metal door that leads up to the
text: roof, trying to break it down. BATMAN turns for an instant --
dialog: a sudden CRACK --
text: -- and he finds himself all wrapped up in the CATWOMAN's CAT-
text: O'-NINE-TAILS...which is also outfitted with a TASER. She
text: sends a PARALYZING ELECTRIC CHARGE through his body and he
text: collapses to the roof in a jittering heap. The BANGING on the
text: door is louder...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Did I tell you I invited company? -- Keep
dialog: 'em busy, angel, I've gotta scat.
text: She kneels down and plants a BIG WET KISS on his twitching
text: face. Then she scurries to the edge of the roof,
scene_heading: DISAPPEARING --
text: -- just as the DOOR gives way -- and an ARMED SWAT TEAM comes
text: crashing out onto the roof!
text: Just coming around, BATMAN tries to roll out of sight -- but
text: the COPS are swarming the place. They spot the BODIES on the
text: tar and gravel, see BATMAN scuttling for cover, and draw the
text: obvious conclusion. Pulling guns, they OPEN FIRE. BULLETS
text: RICOCHET off the big metal GLOBE.
text: BATMAN, as is customary in these situations, shoots a
text: GRAPPLING HOOK at the roof of the next building over -- which
text: is a couple of stories taller than the Globe -- and REELS
text: HIMSELF UPWARD along the side wall. The SWAT COPS score a
text: couple of dead hits which set him swinging like a pendulum,
text: but his body armor holds and he clings to the line long enough
text: to reach the roof.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. NEWSPAPER VAN - MOVING - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: FRlCK and FRACK, still in their Order-of-the-Bat garb, are in
text: the front seats; the PENGUIN is leaning out the side door.
dialog: Someone's obviously tipped the COPS about the source of all
dialog: the ruckus --
text: -- because a pair of POLICE CARS are on their tail and gaining
text: fast. Still hanging in the doorway, the PENGUIN raises his
text: UMBRELLA, peers down its length like a RIFLE SIGHT, and PULLS
speaker_heading: A TRIGGER.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON SQUAD CAR - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: A SONIC DART -- one of the PENGUIN'S BIRD MAGNETS -- lodges
text: itself in the GRILLE of the foremost POLICE CAR.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: The COPS in the car react in astonishment as PIGEONS begin
text: HURLING THEMSELVES at the WINDSHIELDS. A DOZEN KAMIKAZE BIRDS
text: bounce off in rapid succession. CRACKS begin to spread across
dialog: the glass.
text: The COPS can't see where they're driving. The car SWERVES
text: WILDLY. And still the PIGEONS KEEP COMING -- COVERING THE
text: WINDSHIELD -- TOTALLY OBSCURING THE STREETS FROM VIEW...
scene_heading: EXT. STREETS - ON SQUAD CARS - THAT MOMENT
text: The first car, COMPLETELY COVERED WITH BIRDS, smacks into a
text: LAMPPOST and SKIDS. The second car CRASHES INTO IT. And the
text: pigeons continue to pour down from the heavens, SWARMING onto
text: the immobilized squad cars.
scene_heading: INT. NEWSPAPER VAN - MOVING - THAT MOMENT
text: The PENGUIN grins with delight as the van speeds off
text: unmolested.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Look at that, boys -- they do flock
dialog: together!!
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: AMBULANCES are pouring into the square as the BAT ATTACK
text: continues. COPS are firing their guns blindly into the skies
text: as they try to evacuate the citizenry. PARAMEDICS drop the
text: stretcher they're carrying when BATS swoop down at their
dialog: heads...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOFTOPS - NIGHT
text: BATMAN is still pursuing the CATWOMAN, who's perched one roof
text: over, in a squat, wiggling a finger for him to follow. The
text: roofs are icy and treacherous, but he matches her step for
text: step, leap for leap, as she vaults from one building to the
text: next, leading him on. Finally she reaches the edge of a
text: building on the corner of the block; there's no place to go
text: but down. She squats on the ledge and smiles, beckoning to
dialog: him --
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Ooh. Where have you been all my life?
text: He edges closer. Suddenly, she does a BACKFLIP -- DIRECTLY
text: OFF THE EDGE OF THE ROOF.
text: BATMAN hears GLASS SHATTERING. He hesitates a second -- moves
text: closer to the edge of the roof -- PEERS OVER THE ICY CORNICE.
scene_heading: BATMAN'S POV - THAT MOMENT
text: Staring down, he sees a narrow LEDGE running around the facade
text: of the building some ten or twelve feet below. The window of
text: a corner apartment has been smashed; the curtains are flapping
text: in the chill wind.
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF - ON BATMAN - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: She's obviously making her getaway through the apartment.
text: BATMAN climbs up on the slippery cornice and prepares to drop
text: to the ledge below -- cautiously, because it's a long way
text: down. A sudden CRACK --
text: The CATWOMAN hasn't entered the apartment. Instead, she's
text: followed the ledge around the corner of the building, silently
text: doubling back onto the roof behind BATMAN. He TURNS just as
text: her WHIP wraps itself around his left leg. She gives it a
text: sharp tug -- his feet SKID on the ice -- and HE TOPPLES OVER
text: THE EDGE OF THE ROOF.
scene_heading: EXT. FACADE OF BUILDING - ON BATMAN
text: He plunges downward for the briefest of seconds -- then JERKS
text: UP SHORT, SLAMMING INTO THE WALL OF THE BUILDING. The WHIP
text: has coiled itself around his leg, and for now it's holding
text: tight. He's dangling upside down, bat-like; he bounces away
text: from the wall; he SPINS in midair as one loop of the whip
text: UNRAVELS, dropping him another foot or so.
text: He manages to brace his left foot against the wall. It's a
text: massive strain, but he's momentarily safe if he can keep from
text: moving. The alternative is a twelve-story drop, straight down
dialog: to the pavement...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF - ON CATWOMAN - THAT MOMENT
text: She's wrapped the handle-end of the whip around an exposed
text: pipe on the roof, anchoring BATMAN in place. With a cheshire-
text: cat grin, she removes the RAVEN from her knapsack and holds it
text: on the edge of the cornice.
scene_heading: EXT. FACADE - THAT MOMENT
text: BATMAN hanging immobile. Craning his neck, he can just see
dialog: the
text: RAVEN STATUETTE on the ledge above him -- bouncing slightly,
text: and apparently talking to him...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (O.S.)
dialog: Nevermore. Nevermore!
text: Now the CATWOMAN appears beside it -- elbows on the cornice,
text: chin propped up on her folded hands, like a chatty girl at a
dialog: fern bar.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Cute, huh! I think it'll look nice over
dialog: the fireplace. Maybe you can drop by and
dialog: see it sometime.
dialog: <i>(demurely)</i>
dialog: I hope you won't think I'm too...
dialog: aggressive or anything, but I find you
dialog: very attractive.
text: She toys aimlessly with the whipcord, batting at it like a cat
text: with a piece of yarn. BATMAN grimaces. She speaks in a low,
text: soothing, seductive tone -- almost a purr. Behind the bondage
text: mask she bats her eyelashes.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (cont.)
dialog: It's just so hard to meet interesting men
dialog: these days. Don't you think so?
dialog: <i>(sighing)</i>
dialog: I have trouble with relationships. Men
dialog: find me intimidating...kind of predatory,
dialog: you know? Really I'm not. Really I'm
dialog: just playful...
text: BATMAN huffs and puffs, trying to bend at the waist so he can
text: grab hold of the whip. She frowns and YANKS on it. His foot
text: flies free of the wall, and another loop of the whip uncoils
text: before he can stabilize himself.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (cont.)
dialog: Don't laugh! I'm trying to open up to
dialog: you!
text: Angrily, she holds a STEEL CLAW to the whip -- ready to cut
dialog: him loose.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON BATMAN
text: He's palmed the GRAPPLING-HOOK LAUNCHER from his belt.
text: Holding it close to his body, out of view, he works it around
text: into firing position. He'll shoot it right through her if he
dialog: has to...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (cont.)
dialog: I always seem to fall for the wrong guys.
dialog: You know...most men are rats.
speaker_heading: ANGLE ON CATWOMAN
text: She withdraws her hand from the whip, reverts to her
dialog: philosphical mode.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Mice, really. It's disgusting -- they beg
dialog: you to walk all over them and then they
dialog: whine when you do it. Once you've had
dialog: your fun there's not much you can do but
dialog: kill them.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: But you seem different. I mean, you
dialog: obviously understand about dressing up...
dialog: that saves a lot of explaining. I think
dialog: people should indulge their fantasies,
dialog: don't you?
text: BATMAN is sweating profusely. He can't hold his position much
text: longer. And the CATWOMAN is dragging this insane flirtation
text: out endlessly...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: So I think I'll let you live. Cute boys
dialog: like you are hard to find...
dialog: <i>(standing up)</i>
dialog: 'Bye, angel. I'll be thinking about you.
text: And just like that, she VANISHES -- moving silently off with
text: her raven, leaving BATMAN to dangle. He hangs there a moment,
text: tries to twist himself around without moving his foot. He
text: braces one hand against the wall; with the other, he lifts his
text: grappling gun and FIRES.
text: The HOOK SNAGS somewhere on the roof. BATMAN yanks the line
text: taut and is laboriously trying to pull himself erect when --
text: -- the CATWOMAN reappears over the edge of the cornice!
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: Gee...I'm so fickle.
text: A QUICK SWIPE of her STEEL TALONS, and the whipcord is neatly
text: SEVERED. BATMAN'S FOOT slips out from under him -- but he's
text: still got hold of the GRAPPLING GUN. He DROPS eight or ten
dialog: feet...
scene_heading: EXT. ROOF - ON CATWOMAN
text: watching with amusement as BATMAN's weight causes the hook to
text: DISLODGE. It skitters across the gravel surface of the roof
text: and CATCHES, at the last instant, on the edge of the
speaker_heading: CORNICE --
text: -- which promptly CRUMBLES and GIVES WAY. Fascinated, the
text: CATWOMAN leans over the edge of the roof and peers down...
scene_heading: ANGLE ON BATMAN - AS HE FALLS
text: He flails wildly, tangled in his cape, as the ground rushes up
text: toward him. He gets a last-ditch inspiration -- finds the GAS
text: CYLINDER on his belt and hits the switch. The rods in his
text: cape begin to INFLATE...
text: Six stories up, his BATWINGS spring erect, slowing his plunge.
text: Five stories up, an UPDRAFT hits him and he suddenly INVERTS.
text: Four stories up, he rights himself. Three stories up, he goes
text: into a downward spiral, out of control, gliding in great wide
text: arcs over the street...
text: ...and a moment later there are no stories left. With an ugly
text: crunch, he smacks into the slush-covered pavement and BOUNCES.
text: Face down, he skids some twenty feet to a halt -- right in the
text: middle of a BUSY INTERSECTION.
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSECTION - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A DELIVERY TRUCK hits the brakes and screeches to a stop, two
text: feet away from BATMAN'S HEAD. He doesn't move. PEDESTRIANS
text: are already gawking and pointing as the DRIVER climbs out and
text: peers down at the inert caped figure lying face-down in the
dialog: street:
speaker_heading: DRIVER
dialog: What the hell is this?
text: CARS are backed up, due to the panic in Gotham Square a few
text: blocks over. HORNS are honking. A TRAFFIC COP marches
dialog: over --
speaker_heading: TRAFFIC COP
dialog: Awright, what's the problem here?
dialog: <i>(spotting BATMAN)</i>
dialog: Jesus.
text: He tries to clear the crowd away. A full-fledged GRIDLOCK is
text: forming around the prostrate BATMAN. The COP blows his
text: whistle, tries to maintain order as two unifonned PATROLMEN
text: rush up to join him.
text: They manage to roll the unconscious BATMAN over on his back.
text: The assembled COPS stare down at the mask, the scuffed body
text: armor. Still waxy, they finger the GUNS in their holsters...
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: Good God. Cowan -- get to the car --
dialog: radio the commissioner!!
text: By now there must be two hundred people in the intersection,
text: all surging forward to get a look. More COPS are arriving to
dialog: beat them back.
speaker_heading: TRAFFIC COP
dialog: Is he dead? What do we do?
speaker_heading: PATROLMAN
dialog: The mask. Get the mask off.
text: They hunker down over BATMAN. One of them tugs at his mask --
text: but the helmet-like cowl doesn't want to give way. He feels
dialog: around --
speaker_heading: TRAFFIC COP
dialog: Some kinda seam here on the neck...
text: The PATROLMAN nods okay, and the COP tugs at a Velcro-like
text: fastening under BATMAN's chin. The instant it comes open --
text: -- a BURST of FINE GREEN MIST spews forth from concealed JETS
text: in the gold-and-black BAT-EMBLEM, and the COPS reel backward,
text: shrieking, gasping for breath and clewing at their eyes.
dialog: Booby-trap -- they've just been Maced.
text: One of the ONLOOKING COPS steps back in horror and confusion.
text: On impulse, he draws his gun and FIRES TWICE at BATMAN. The
text: body JERKS and the bullets RICOCHET OFF --
speaker_heading: TRAFFIC COP
dialog: DON'T SHOOT, you idiot. The crowd --
text: Before he can finish, a BLACK BOOT kicks the gun out of the
text: ONLOOKING COP's hand. BATMAN is back among the living.
text: SIRENS BLARE as he spins and rolls into a crouch -- lashing
text: out with elbows and knees -- driving the cops back --
text: Fuck the crowd. TWO MORE COPS pull their guns and open fire
text: in absolute panic. BATMAN slams backward into the delivery
text: truck and crumples to the ground. As he falls, he grabs a
text: couple of SMOKE CAPSULES from his belt and flings them to the
dialog: pavement.
text: Seconds later, a THICK CLOUD OF BLACK SMOKE is spreading
text: through the intersection. BATMAN emerges into the midst of
text: the crowd -- weaving in and out among the stalled vehicles --
scene_heading: EXT. INTERSECTION - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT
text: A MOUNTED COP rides up to the outer fringe of the traffic jam,
text: drawn by all the confusion. He rears the horse back, turns it
text: in a circle; blows his piercing whistle as he tries to reroute
dialog: the incoming cars...
text: Suddenly a WIRE wraps itself around his chest and arms. He
text: looks down. He sees a BATARANG in the instant before a sudden
text: JERK pulls him cleanly off his mount.
text: BATMAN climbs up on the hood of the nearest car -- vaults over
text: to the next -- and the next -- then hops into the saddle of
text: the MOUNTED COP's waiting HORSE. He digs in his heels,
text: maneuvering through traffic...
scene_heading: EXT. POLICE CAR - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: LT. EDDIE BULLOCK and another plainclothesman are a few blocks
text: off trying to get through the jam. Their siren is on, but the
text: cars blocking their path have no room to pull over. BULLOCK
text: grabs the radio mike:
speaker_heading: BULLOCK
dialog: Hell of a mess up here, Commissioner.
dialog: We'll have to go in on foot...
text: As they wait for a response, they see a HORSE charging past in
text: the opposite direction. On the back of the horse...is BATMAN.
text: Gaping, BULLOCK nudges his partner -- who throws the car
text: immediately into REVERSE. As they watch, BATMAN kicks the
text: horse's flanks and turns right -- toward Gotham Park.
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM PARK - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: Two RED BERETS, members of the Order of the Bat, are on night
text: patrol, strolling down a rambling path near the entrance to
dialog: the park.
speaker_heading: RED BERET I
dialog: This is wack, man. Nothing ever happens
dialog: around here anymore.
text: The other RED BERET lets out a WHOOP OF FEAR and yanks his
text: partner out of the way. They tumble into a snowdrift as
text: BATMAN'S HORSE vaults over the stone wall of the park and
text: gallops past, nearly trampling them in the process. By now,
text: SQUAD CARS are roaring into the park...
scene_heading: INT. PARK - ANOTHER SECTION - A MOMENT LATER
text: SIRENS BLARE and RED LIGHTS FLASH in the distance as the COP
text: CARS spread out along the winding roads that run through the
text: park. BATMAN reins the horse in suddenly as a black-and-white
text: whips past on an access road just ahead of him, no more than
text: twenty yards away.
text: He turns the horse in a circle. MORE RED LIGHTS appear in the
text: distance; another contingent of SQUAD CARS has just entered
dialog: from the opposite side of the park. It's going to be tough
dialog: getting out of here...
text: Then: his eyes fall on the statue of his great-grandfather,
text: GENERAL WAYNE -- two Waynes on horseback, not twenty feet
text: apart. He thinks back to his earlier conversation with VICKI
dialog: and gets an inspiration.
text: He rides past General Wayne to the STONE BRIDGE which spans
text: the little frozen creek. There he finds the DRAINAGE TUNNEL
text: VICKI described, obscured by the wire-mesh grate. This must
dialog: be where the boy vigilante holes up...
text: He dismounts, ties his CAPE to the pommel of the horse's
text: saddle and sends it off with a slap. He pries the grate loose
text: and crawls inside.
scene_heading: INT. DRAINAGE TUNNEL - THAT MOMENT
text: A dank, but cozy, hideout; WARM STEAM hisses from a grate in
dialog: the floor.
text: RUMBLING SOUNDS fill the little chamber as a SUBWAY TRAIN
text: passes directly underneath. A little farther back there's an
text: ACCESS SHAFT, with a Jacob's ladder, leading to the train
dialog: tracks below.
text: Poking around, he finds a couple of cardboard BOXES -- the boy
text: vigilante's stash. The first contains tins of food, plus
text: various odds and ends. The second's more in line with what he
text: needs -- it's full of OLD CLOTHING.
text: A TRAIN rumbles past underneath. BRUCE removes his COWL and
dialog: sets about putting together a civilian disguise that'll get
text: him out of the park. A wool hat and a long, moth-eaten
text: topcoat: perfect. As he's pulling them out of the box, he
dialog: spies something extremely odd --
text: It's a COSTUME -- a spangled red-and-green GYMNASTS OUTFIT
text: with a little yellow CAPE -- neatly folded and in pristine
text: condition. He removes it carefully from the box and holds it
text: up in front of him. Stitched on the vest is a single initial,
text: "R," in a black circle. He stares at the whole mystifying
text: ensemble in complete befuddlement...
text: The roar of the train subsides, and he hears a SCUFFLING
text: NOISE. Someone's in the tunnel with him. He lowers the
dialog: costume abruptly --
text: -- revealing DICK, the boy vigilante, who's crouched in front
text: of him not three feet away. The kid's just crawled up through
text: the ACCESS SHAFT, and he's not at all happy to see an intruder
dialog: messing with his stuff:
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: It's MINE!
text: He lunges furiously at BRUCE. The two of them tumble back
text: into the grate at the tunnel entrance, KNOCKING IT LOOSE --
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - MOUTH OF TUNNEL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A POLICE CAR streaks past on the bridge overhead mere seconds
text: before BRUCE and DICK roll out into the snow, still grappling.
text: BRUCE flings the kid into the bridge abutment. DICK lands
text: hard; when he looks up, his EYES WIDEN, and a weird crooked
text: smile comes to his face...
text: Out here in the moonlight he can see his opponent. The body
text: armor -- the gold-and-black emblem on the breastplate -- and
text: above it all, the face of BRUCE WAYNE, exposed to view...
text: As a siren howls nearby, BRUCE flattens himself against the
text: bridge. Like it or not, his fate rests entirely in a strange
text: little boy's hands.
text: The kid sizes up the situation immediately. He nods his head
text: up and down. Then he takes off his own ratty coat and throws
text: it to BRUCE.
text: BRUCE is in no position to look a gift horse in the mouth. He
text: pulls on the coat, gives DICK a nod of acknowledgement, and
text: starts to move off.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: NO. WAIT!
text: BRUCE turns, uncertainly. DICK throws him his woolen SKI CAP.
text: The KID GIGGLES -- oddly, uncontrollably. Then he sprints off
text: into the woods, dancing, leaping. As he disappears from view,
text: he lets out a shrill, piercing, almost FERAL SHRIEK --
text: -- which is obviously intended to divert the cops. BRUCE
text: makes haste in the opposite direction.
scene_heading: EXT. PARK - ANOTHER SECTION - A MOMENT LATER
text: BRUCE'S HORSE gallops through the trees, the black bat-cape
text: still attached to its saddle and BILLOWING behind it.
scene_heading: INT. SQUAD CAR - MOVING - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: TWO COPS scanning the park. The CAPED HORSE charges past in
text: front of them and is momentarily silhouetted in the
text: headlights. From a distance, it looks like BATMAN is still in
dialog: the saddle.
text: The COP at the wheel makes a sudden turn. A moment later, he
text: SLAMS ON THE BRAKES.
text: A MAN has just stepped out onto the road, directly in the
text: squad car's path -- a hunched figure in an old coat and woolen
text: ski cap, obviously one of the homeless. A COP leans on the
text: horn and shouts out the window:
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Dumb son of a bitch!!
text: The MAN -- BRUCE -- steps back out of the squad car's path.
text: The COPS take off -- in hot pursuit of a riderless horse.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - KITCHEN - PRE-DAWN
text: A DOCTOR'S BAG rests on the kitchen table. ALFRED, in robe
text: and slippers, rummages inside it and comes up with an ACE
speaker_heading: BANDAGE.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Commissioner Gordon called. He wants to
text: install a full contingent of police guards
text: here at the manor -- in round-the-clock
dialog: shifts -- to protect you from Batman.
text: BRUCE is sitting erect in a straightbacked chair. His shirt
text: is open and he's holding his arms aloft while ALFRED wraps a
text: full roll of adhesive tape around his battered RIBS.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Great. What'd you tell him?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I told him that since you were Batman,
dialog: you'd require no protection from Batman.
text: BRUCE makes a face: how droll. ALFRED tears off the tape with
text: a brisk YANK -- and BRUCE lets out an involuntary YELP OF
speaker_heading: PAIN.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Jesus, Alfred -- !!
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: In future, sir...I strongly advise against
text: trying to fly off twenty-story buildings.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: It's just a few bruises.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: One bruise, sir. Which covers your entire
dialog: body.
text: BRUCE gets up -- stiffly -- and buttons his shirt in gingerly
text: fashion while ALFRED packs his first-aid gear in the doctor's
dialog: bag.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm getting too old for this line of work.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: Cops placed me at the scene of the crime
dialog: -- that weird kid of Vicki's saw my
dialog: face --
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I shouldn't worry overmuch. I doubt the
dialog: two of you move in the same circles.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- and I got the living shit knocked out
dialog: of me by a woman.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Sir -- such outmoded sexist attitudes are
text: quite unbecoming.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS BEDROOM - DAY
text: In a lavishly-appointed guest room on Gotham's Upper East Side
text: (or equivalent thereof), we find a pair of PLAINCLOTHES COPS
text: settled in for a stakeout: rumpled topcoats thrown across
text: antique chairs, french-fry bags and GREASY BURGER WRAPPINGS
text: littering the carpet. HIGH-POWERED RIFLES propped against one
dialog: wall.
text: They peer through venetian blinds at an ELEGANT OLD BROWNSTONE
text: across the street...
scene_heading: HIS POV - ROOF OF BROWNSTONE - THAT MOMENT
text: A UNIFORMED COP, also carrying a walkie-talkie, is keeping
text: watch on the roof of the brownstone. He signals "all clear"
text: to his counterpart watching from the house opposite.
scene_heading: INT. UNMARKED CAR - THAT MOMENT
text: TWO MORE PLAINCLOTHESMEN are parked at the end of the block,
text: munching on donuts and watching the same brownstone. They
text: spot a POSTMAN lugging his sack up the tree-lined street on
text: his way to the brownstone. One of the PLAINCLOTHESMEN picks
dialog: up his RADIO MIKE:
speaker_heading: PLAINCLOTHESMAN
text: Mailman's coming.
scene_heading: EXT. BROWNSTONE - A MINUTE LATER
text: The POSTMAN marches up the front steps of the brownstone,
text: sorting through letters and packages. He hasn't even rung the
text: bell when the door is opened by ANOTHER COP -- who snatches
text: the mail delivery from his hands and SLAMS THE DOOR IN HIS
speaker_heading: FACE.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE - THAT MOMENT
text: MORE COPS, at least half a dozen, are milling about inside --
text: unshaven, ties loosened, shirtsleeves rolled up. They're in
dialog: for the long haul.
text: The first COP gives a handful of letters to a couple of
text: COLLEAGUES -- then hands over a PARCEL, wrapped in brown
text: paper, to a pair of BOMB-DISPOSAL EXPERTS. They carry it
text: gingerly into the kitchen. Into the midst of all this
text: bustling activity strides COMMISSIONER GORDON:
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Anything suspicious!
text: In the parlor, where all the shades are drawn, TWO COPS are
text: examining each letter in turn, holding them up to a light
text: bulb, CREASING THEM carefully before slitting them open.
speaker_heading: COP
text: Nothing yet. Christmas cards and bills.
text: He anxiously watches their progress. A VOICE calls from the
dialog: kitchen.
speaker_heading: BOMB-DISPOSAL EXPERT (V.O.)
dialog: Commissioner -- ?
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - A MOMENT LATER
text: GORDON enters. The bomb-disposal boys have their equipment
text: scattered all over the kitchen table. They've slit the brown-
text: paper wrapping of the PACKAGE, exposing a ROUND DECORATIVE
dialog: TIN.
scene_heading: BOMB-DISPOSAL EXPERT
dialog: It's a fruitcake.
text: He lifts the lid for GORDON to have a look.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: ...Have it analyzed.
scene_heading: INT. BROWNSTONE - ENTRY HALL - THAT MOMENT
text: A bleary-eyed ELLIOTT TIPTREE marches down the stairs carrying
text: a pair of OVERSIZED SUITCASES. His WIFE and TWO KIDS are
text: behind him -- all bundled up, preparing to embark on an
dialog: extended vacation.
speaker_heading: POLICEMAN
dialog: Mrs. Tiptree? The car's here.
text: TIPTREE, fighting back tears, embraces his wife for a long
text: wordless moment. Their LITTLE GIRL, aged six, tugs at Mommy's
dialog: sleeve.
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
dialog: I don't wanna go to Grandma's. I wanna
dialog: stay here with Daddy.
speaker_heading: MRS. TIPTREE
dialog: She's got a nice tree just like ours,
dialog: honey. Daddy'll be up as soon as he can.
speaker_heading: LITTLE GIRL
text: She's old. She doesn't even have cable.
speaker_heading: LITTLE BOY
dialog: What about our presents?
text: He gestures toward the GIFTS piled high around the tree in the
dialog: parlor.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Don't worry. I'll bring 'em up with me.
dialog: We'll open 'em when I get there.
text: TIPTREE forces a smile for the kids. He CLUTCHES his wife's
dialog: hand.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Sorry, folks, but we'd better move along.
speaker_heading: MRS. TIPTREE
dialog: Kids? Tell your Daddy goodbye...
text: Tearful hugs all around; then a cadre of UNIFORMED COPS escort
text: MRS. TIPTREE and the KIDS to the door. TIPTREE pulls GORDON
dialog: aside.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: They'll be safe, won't they?
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: As safe as we can make 'em.
dialog: <i>(beat; sternly)</i>
dialog: It would help if you could give us some
dialog: small hint what this is all about.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: I told you. I...
text: TIPTREE shrugs helplessly and stares at his shoes. GORDON is
text: convinced he's holding something back.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: You have no idea what was in that box that
text: Provost had delivered from the bank.
text: TIPTREE shakes his head wearily. GORDON glowers as he turns
dialog: to go.
speaker_heading: GORDON (cont.)
dialog: All right, Mr. Tiptree. Merry Christmas.
text: GORDON exits. TIPTREE wanders listlessly into the living
text: room, pulls back the drapes, and WATCHES as his wife and kids
text: ride off in a convoy of POLICE CARS. One of the COPS tries to
text: pull him away from the window, but he refuses to move...
text: ...until a PHONE RINGS. Everyone jumps at once. A TECHNICIAN
text: hits a switch on a loudspeaker-and-tape-recorder assembly,
text: then gestures for TIPTREE to pick up the receiver...
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Hello...?
scene_heading: VOICE ON LOUDSPEAKER
dialog: Mr. Tiptree? Andy here. Listen -- we've
dialog: got a chance to grab a good-sized block of
dialog: Atlantic Teledyne at twenty-six and an
dialog: eighth --
text: The COPS heave sighs and turn off their tracing equipment.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Not today, Andy. Let's talk after New
dialog: Year's.
text: TIPTREE hangs up and starts to BAWL right there in the middle
text: of the room. The COPS turn away in sympathetic embarrassment
text: as he goes to a corner wet bar and pours himself a good stiff
dialog: jolt.
scene_heading: INT. TIPTREE'S BEDROOM - DAY
text: Wallowing in despair, TIPTREE sits at an antique secretary
text: composing a LETTER. He takes a long pull on a glass of
text: Scotch, signs his name, and inserts the letter into an
text: envelope. He opens the desk drawer -- takes a long look at a
text: .38 automatic stashed inside -- then finds a stamp and affixes
text: it to the envelope. He addresses it to BRUCE WAYNE.
text: A moment later he hears a noise at the window: TINK TINK TINK.
text: He peers through the blinds and sees a CARRIER PIGEON on the
text: ledge outside -- pecking at the glass, asking to come in.
text: He raises the window and the PIGEON hops fearlessly inside,
text: onto the sill. The bird, well-trained, struggles only
text: slightly as he unties a tiny CAPSULE from its leg and removes
text: a FOLDED NOTE. Scrawled across it is a handwritten message:
text: IF POLICE SEE THIS YOUR FAMILY IS DEAD
text: He opens the note and begins to read as the PIGEON takes wing.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S LIBRARY - DAY
text: BRUCE is at his desk examining the morning editions. A BANNER
text: HEAD-LINE shrieks:
scene_heading: BATMAN SOUGHT IN PUBLISHER'S MURDER
dialog: Bat Attack Panics Gotham Square
dialog: J. Harrison Provost, 41, Leaves Distinguished Legacy
text: He hears a VISITOR arriving in the entry hall. He gets up...
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL - THAT MOMENT - DAY
text: BRUCE ambles out and sees SELINA, who's just arrived, doing
text: her patetented thing on ALFRED.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: English accents are so stimulating.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: You have the most beautiful silver hair!
text: ALFRED stammers as she reaches up to STROKE HIS HAIR. He's
text: about to break into a sweat. He's eminently relieved when she
dialog: turns and sees --
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Bruce!
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Selina. What are you doing here?
text: ALFRED affects a look of grandmotherly outrage as SELINA
text: slinks over and takes BRUCE by the arm. She's on him like a
text: barnacle.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I wanted to see your things, remember?
dialog: And I got tired of waiting for you to call
dialog: me back.
dialog: <i>(gesturing toward ALFRED)</i>
dialog: He's adorable. How long have you had him?
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER - DAY
text: BRUCE leads SELINA down a hallway to the armory. He glances
text: back over his shoulder and sees ALFRED peering snoopily around
dialog: the corner.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You heard about Harry Provost.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It's incredibly awful. It got me a little
dialog: worried.
dialog: <i>(sidling up closer)</i>
dialog: I hate to think of something happening to
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Same here.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It's odd, though. Danger, the thought of
text: suddenly dying -- in a weird way it gets
dialog: you sort of...aroused. Don't you think?
text: BRUCE cocks an eyebrow at her. Everything gets her sort of
dialog: aroused.
scene_heading: INT. ARMORY - A MOMENT LATER
text: SELINA BEAMS at the fantastic collection of armored gear and
text: exotic weapons. She's like a kid in a toy shop.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Bruce, this is incredible.
dialog: <i>(indicating a suit of armor)</i>
dialog: Malaysian -- ?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Not bad. Sarawak warrior caste.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It's like -- everything in here is another
dialog: little piece of your mind. I was right
dialog: about you.
dialog: <i>(turning to face him)</i>
dialog: Promise, okay? Promise you'll show me
dialog: every inch of this place.
scene_heading: PAGE 87 MISSING FROM HARD COPY
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER
text: ALFRED is at a PRINTER, scanning page after page of computer
text: printout. He delivers his findings to BRUCE, who's seated at
text: a nearby terminal, scanning data and tapping away at the
dialog: keyboard.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The police have no files whatsoever on
dialog: Selina Kyle.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: <i>(abstractedly)</i>
dialog: London...Cairo...Belgium...
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What exactly are you --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Her credit card records.
dialog: <i>(looking up)</i>
dialog: Every major art theft in the last five
dialog: years -- she's been on the scene or close
dialog: to it.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You mean she's some sort of -- collector?
dialog: A...cat burglar, or --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Could be. Museum curator, authenticator
dialog: -- she's got the perfect cover for it.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: What would she want with that stupid
dialog: raven?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Raven, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That's what the Catwoman took from
text: Provost. A little raven statuette, about
dialog: so big...
dialog: <i>(shaking his head)</i>
dialog: But it couldn't have been that valuable.
text: He continues to scan the screen. ALFRED is suddenly lost in
dialog: thought.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How very odd.
dialog: <i>(long pause)</i>
dialog: I'm sure it's nothing, but --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What, Alfred?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Your father had a raven, sir. A small
dialog: statue of the very sort you describe. It
text: used to sit on his desk.
text: This piques BRUCE's interest. He swivels around in his chair
text: and stares directly up at ALFRED.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What happened to it?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: After your father's...demise, Mr. Tiptree
dialog: came to the house and asked if he could
dialog: have it. As a keepsake. I saw no harm...
dialog: <i>(shrugging)</i>
dialog: That was thirty years ago.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Wait a minute. Mr. Tiptree?
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: George Tiptree. Your friend Elliott's
dialog: father.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: INT. TIPTREE'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON
text: TIPTREE has an oversized suitcase open on the bed. It's empty
text: -- except for the BALLED-UP WADS of NEWSPAPER which he's
text: stuffing inside it. His head turns suddenly at the sound of
dialog: the doorbell...
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: TIPTREE emerges from his bedroom and peers over a bannister
text: into the ENTRYWAY below. Standing there is an unexpected
text: visitor -- BRUCE WAYNE -- holding his arms aloft while a
text: battery of COPS pat him down.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What are you looking for -- Batarangs?
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Bruce! Come on up.
dialog: <i>(to the COPS)</i>
dialog: I want to talk to Mr. Wayne alone.
text: The COPS look on suspiciously as BRUCE ascends the stairs.
scene_heading: INT. TIPTREE'S LIBRARY - A MOMENT LATER
text: TIPTREE lets BRUCE inside and shuts the door behind him.
text: BRUCE hands him a GIFT BOX.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I brought you a Christmas present. Sorry
dialog: about the wrapping -- the police made me
dialog: open it.
text: TIPTREE opens the box and pulls out a diamond-studded TIE
text: CLASP. He looks up at BRUCE with an odd mixture of
text: bewilderment and gratitude. BRUCE nods for him to try it on,
dialog: and he obliges...
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: ...I'm afraid I don't have anything for
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I think you may have something that
dialog: belonged to my father.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: -- You know?
text: He stares at BRUCE, astonished. His head sinks into his
dialog: hands.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE (cont.)
dialog: It'll all be over tomorrow. One way or
dialog: another, it'll all be over.
dialog: <i>(looking up; despondent)</i>
dialog: I've decided, Bruce. I'm gonna give him
text: the last two ravens. He's already got the
dialog: others.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What are you talking about? Who?
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Batman. I don't know how he found out,
dialog: but --
text: TIPTREE reaches for the bottle on his desk to pour himself a
text: drink, but BRUCE angrily knocks the glass out of his hands.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: It's time you told me what's going on
dialog: here.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Didn't you ever wonder where it came from,
dialog: Bruce? All the privilege, all the power
dialog: ...all the money?
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: The ravens are a...a kind of map, Bruce.
dialog: The key to an incredibly vast fortune.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Whose fortune?
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Gotham City's.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - PROCESSED FOOTAGE (MOS)
text: The cobblestone streets of 19th-Century Gotham. A massive
text: EXPLOSION blows open one wall of a municipal building, and
text: total CHAOS erupts: fires starting, BYSTANDERS screaming,
text: POLICE rushing to the scene...
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: In 1880 the Gotham City Treasury was
dialog: looted. It was a fantastic operation --
text: perfect military precision. The robbers
dialog: made off with milllons in gold and silver
dialog: bullion...
text: A HORSE-DRAWN CART weighted down with gold bricks careens
text: around a corner. Atop it are two men in MASKS, firing a
text: GATLING GUN into the crowd. POLICE and ONLOOKERS tumble to
text: the pavement, shot dead, as ANOTHER CART emerges from the
text: wreckage of the treasury and takes off in the opposite
dialog: direction.
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - PROCESSED FOOTAGE (MOS)
text: CITY OFFICIALS in a boardroom trading papers back and forth,
text: arguing furiously with five calm, distinguished-looking GENTS
text: -- one of whom is the bushy-bearded Civil War hero GEN. OLIVER
speaker_heading: WAYNE.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE (V.O.)
dialog: The city was going under. Bankrupt...
text: until five rich men stepped in to bail it
dialog: out. In exchange they took the land
dialog: rights, the mineral rights, the service
dialog: contracts --
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE AND TIPTREE
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: The Five Families.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Our ancestors. They bought Gotham City --
text: carved it up and ran it into the ground.
dialog: In five years they were rich beyond
dialog: imagining.
dialog: <i>(pause)</i>
dialog: We've just been following in their
dialog: footsteps. And in all this time no one's
dialog: ever suspected --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: -- that they were the ones behind the
dialog: robbery?
scene_heading: FLASHBACK - PROCESSED FOOTAGE (MOS)
text: The FIVE PATRIARCHS in front of a roaring fireplace at Wayne
text: Manor, raising a celebratory toast. CAMERA PANS OVER to a
text: nearby table; on it rest FIVE RAVEN STATUETTES.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE (O.S.)
text: They had five ravens made. Five ravens
dialog: which -- combined -- would reveal the
dialog: location of the treasure they'd stolen.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: But they never touched it. They never
dialog: needed to. It's still there to this day.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE AND TIPTREE
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: The ravens, and the secret -- have been
dialog: passed down through generations. Father
dialog: to son...
dialog: <i>(shaking his head)</i>
dialog: Your father -- died before he could tell
dialog: you.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: So they stole his piece of the puzzle.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Yeah. I've got it, Bruce, and I'm going
dialog: to hand it over. He's right, you know.
dialog: We've all been feeding -- feeding on the
dialog: soul of Gotham...
text: BRUCE stares at him, stony-faced. There's one part of the
text: story that doesn't quite add up.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: I don't believe you, Elliott. My father
dialog: was a decent man -- an honorable man. He
dialog: would never have taken part in a scheme
dialog: like this.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: It wasn't his doing, Bruce. It was --
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: That doesn't matter. If he knew that his
dialog: fortune was based on a crime -- a crime
dialog: against the city...
dialog: <i>(violently)</i>
dialog: Reputation or not, he would've tried to --
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: Christ, Bruce! Do you want me to spell it
dialog: out for you?!?
text: BRUCE backs off. An awful shiver of anticipation runs down
text: his spine.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE (cont.)
dialog: He was a decent man. He was an honorable
dialog: man. That's why they had him killed.
text: CAMERA ZEROES IN ON BRUCE'S HORRIFIED FACE as we get a
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: Quick, almost subliminal glimpses of BRUCE's primal trauma: a
text: MUGGER snatching at his mother's necklace. THOMAS WAYNE
text: lunging at him. The young JACK NAPIER firing at THOMAS.
text: PEARLS showering down on the rain-drenched sidewalk. A second
text: bullet felling his MOTHER --
text: -- and finally, young BRUCE himself, face wracked with PAIN
dialog: and GRIEF --
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE
dialog: -- an expression which perfectly matches the one which the
text: adult BRUCE is wearing as he relives it all thirty years
text: later. Staggered and glassy-eyed, he stares off into space as
text: TIPTREE finishes his tale.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: They killed him...to protect their secret
dialog: ...and now the bill's come due. Now the
dialog: bill's come due.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - ESTABLISHING - TOWARD DUSK
text: The wrought-iron gate outside BRUCE's vast estate -- and
text: beyond it, Wayne Manor itself, rising bold and stately against
text: the setting sun. A COUNTY SHERIFF'S CAR cruises past...
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - BRUCE'S BEDROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: BRUCE lies motionless on his bed. Scattered about him are
text: SCRAPBOOKS, FAMILY PHOTOS and yellowed NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS
text: which describe the murder of his parents. Disoriented, he
text: gazes about aimlessly at his familiar surroundings -- which no
dialog: longer seem quite so familiar...
text: He folds his arms formally across his chest and stares up at
text: the ceiling, inert, as if the very weight of his heritage is
text: crushing him down. Somewhere, a PHONE RINGS. He makes no
dialog: move to answer it.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - KITCHEN - DUSK
text: VICKI's at the kitchen table drinking coffee. ALFRED, who's
text: in his apron preparing dinner, picks up the ringing phone.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Thank you, yes, everything's fine. I'll
dialog: expect your next call in an hour.
dialog: <i>(hanging up; to VICKI)</i>
text: The police are becoming an awful nuisance.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I feel so awful for him, Alfred. There
dialog: must be something we can do.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I realized long ago -- that there are
text: places in Mr. Wayne's heart which no one
dialog: will ever penetrate -- or share.
dialog: <i>(pause)</i>
dialog: He loves you, Miss Vale. But in certain
dialog: ways he will always be alone.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (O.S.)
dialog: ...Thanks for the testimonial.
text: ALFRED turns and sees BRUCE standing in the doorway, staring
text: at him. He starts to say something, but thinks better of it.
text: He returns to his dinner preparations as BRUCE sits down
text: across from VICKI. She extends a hand and he takes it --
text: making a visible effort to hold himself together.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: Tiptree's planning some kind of rendezvous
dialog: with 'Batman.' I think Batman ought to be
dialog: there when it happens.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I see, sir. When shall we expect you
dialog: back?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Get your cap. You're driving.
scene_heading: INT. TIPTREE'S BROWNSTONE - NIGHT
text: It's late, and the house is dark as TIPTREE treeds silently
text: downstairs carrying an OVERSIZED SUITCASE. The lights are on
text: in the kitchen, where the COPS are playing poker and watching
dialog: TV.
scene_heading: INT. PARLOR - A MOMENT LATER - NIGHT
text: CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTS twinkle in the darkness. TIPTREE kneels
text: beside the tree and digs around among the packages. He pulls
text: out an OBLONG GIFT BOX with a tag addressed "TO DADDY -- FROM
dialog: SANTA."
text: With a glance back at the kitchen, he soundlessly unwraps the
text: package -- and opens it to reveal a matched set of RAVEN
text: STATUETTES. He transfers them to the big suitcase -- then
text: slinks into the hallway...
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM ACROSS STREET - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The two STAKEOUT COPS are chuckling at a Charlie Brown
text: Christmas special on a portable TV. One of them glances out
text: the window and sees a man in a topcoat emerging from the
text: brownstone, SUITCASE in hand...
speaker_heading: STAKEOUT COP I
dialog: Shit -- that's Tiptree!!
text: The COP grabs for his WALKIE-TALKIE.
scene_heading: EXT. STREET OUTSIDE BROWNSTONE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: TIPTREE is halfway down the block when two COPS burst out of
text: the brownstone.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: Mr. Tiptree! What the hell are you --
text: HEADLIGHTS FLASH ON as the SURVEILLANCE CAR revs its engine.
text: TIPTREE breaks into a RUN -- and the COPS from the brownstone
text: follow suit. At the end of the block he vanishes down a
scene_heading: SUBWAY ENTRANCE.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY STATION - THAT MOMENT
text: A VIOLINIST is panhandling outside the token booth as the COPS
text: come racing down the stairs. The COPS trip over his open
text: violin case, scattering small change across the conrete floor.
text: They flash their badges at the booth and VAULT OVER THE
speaker_heading: TURNSTILE --
text: -- just in time to see TIPTREE, with his SUITCASE, scuttling
text: down a stairway which leads to the train platform below.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - A MOMENT LATER
text: TIPTREE steps onto an EXPRESS TRAIN. The doors slide shut
text: behind him -- and the hapless COPS curse under their breath as
text: he rolls off.
speaker_heading: COP
dialog: We've gotta get back to the radio.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY CAR - A MOMENT LATER - MOVING
text: TIPTREE takes an open seat and looks around apprehensively.
dialog: Being fabulously rich, be's probably ridden the subway twice
text: in his life -- and at this time of night, EVERY FACE in the
text: sparsely-populated car looks vaguely menacing. Derelicts,
dialog: prostitutes, teen-gang members -- ALL OF THEM eye this well-
text: heeled stranger with intense curiosity as he clutches his
text: suitcase and stares anxiously at the floor...
text: An ODD, GAUNT FIGURE enters at the end of the car. It's a
text: DEAFMUTE. He shambles down the aisle passing out little white
text: CARDS. One side is a guide to International Sign Language.
dialog: The other reads:
speaker_heading: DEAF AND DUMB
scene_heading: PLEASE HELP -- $1.00
text: TWO YOUNG TOUGHS take a card and tear it in half, chuckling,
text: shining the DEAFMUTE on. A HOOKER, the heart-of-gold type,
text: stuffs a buck in his tin cup. He reaches TIPTREE and extends
text: a card; TIPTREE ignores him, refusing to make eye contact --
text: -- but the DEAFMUTE shoves the card insistently into his face.
text: Now TIPTREE looks up. THIS CARD bears a personalized message:
scene_heading: GOTHAM CENTRAL STATION
scene_heading: B-TRAIN WEST TO RIVERVIEW
text: TIPTREE's eyes widen. The DEAFMUTE -- who is in fact FRICK --
text: glowers down and holds out his cup. TIPTREE digs in his
text: pocket; the smallest bill he's got is a twenty, but he hands
dialog: it over anyway.
text: Smiling at this act of generosity, FRICK moves on to the next
text: car. TIPTREE stares down tremulously at the card. He fidgets
text: with his TIE CLASP -- the one BRUCE gave him earlier...
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - MOVING - NIGHT
text: TIGHT on a hand-held ELECTRONIC TRACING DEVICE. A small BLIP
text: moves across a shifting GRID not unlike a radar screen.
text: BRUCE is in the back of the limo, eyeing the tracer intently.
text: ALFRED's up front, at the wheel.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: According to this, he's directly below us.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The subway, sir?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah. Take a right.
scene_heading: INT. GOTHAM CENTRAL STATION - THAT MOMENT
text: It's slightly more crowded here in the hub of Gotham. TIPTREE
text: emerges onto the platform and spies a squad of TRANSIT COPS
text: thirty or forty feet away -- speaking into WALKIE-TALKIES as
text: they scan the crowd.
text: Sticking close to the tracks, he turns swiftly toward the
text: nearest stairway -- blending in with the crowd, trying to hold
text: the SUITCASE out of view.
scene_heading: INT. LOWER PLATFORM - A MINUTE LATER
text: TIPTREE IS RUNNING for the B-train just as the doors begin to
text: close. He manages to thrust the suitcase inside -- but the
text: doors SLIDE SHUT on his hand, and he DROPS IT. He stands
text: there on the platform, his face turning BONE WHITE as the
text: train lurches forward...
text: False alarm. The train stops, and the doors hiss open again.
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY CAR - MOVING - A MOMENT LATER
text: TIPTREE clambers aboard with a severe case of palpitations.
text: As the train pulls out, a couple of rough-looking but helpful
text: STREET TYPES show him to a seat and hand him his precious
text: suitcase. He sits there panting...
text: Moments later, a DEAFMUTE enters the car. TIPTREE does a
dialog: take: it's the exact same guy who was riding the other line!
text: Of course, he doesn't know about Frick's malignant twin --
text: FRACK...
speaker_heading: WIPE TO:
scene_heading: INT. LOCAL STOP - TEN MINUTES LATER - NIGHT
text: Having changed trains twice more since we left him, TIPTREE
text: debarks at a deserted local stop. The station is EMPTY except
dialog: for one other passenger, who's gotten off here as well -- a
text: WOMAN in a long fur coat.
text: TIPTREE WATCHES as she approaches on her way to the stairwell,
text: STILLETO HEELS clicking across the floor. There's something
text: familiar about her -- but she's wearing a big, broad-brimmed
text: hat, and she TILTS IT DOWN as she passes, obscuring her face.
dialog: It is, of course, SELINA...
text: TIPTREE stands there expectantly with his suitcase, awaiting
text: further instructions. They aren't long in coming. A BLACK
text: MYNAH BIRD swoops out of the tunnel, lands on the platform,
text: and STRUTS in front of him.
speaker_heading: MYNAH
text: FOLLOW ME. AWWWKK! FOLLOW ME.
text: The bird flutters its wings and takes off again -- INTO THE
text: TUNNEL. TIPTREE stares after it in disbelief. Then the bird
text: CAWS AGAIN -- its shrill voice echoing from the darkness of
dialog: the tunnel:
speaker_heading: MYNAH (O.S.)
dialog: FOLLOW ME. AWWWKK!
text: TIPTREE clambers over the edge of the platform, dropping
text: awkwardly to the tracks below. Suitcase in hand, he begins to
dialog: walk...
scene_heading: INT. LIMO - MOVING - NIGHT
text: ALFRED tearing up the streets as BRUCE consults his tracer.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: He's slowed down. Looks like he's under
dialog: the park.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How do you propose to get down there, sir?
dialog: We can't have Batman strolling up to buy a
dialog: token.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I know another way in.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: Step on it. They're down there waiting
dialog: for him.
text: ALFRED turns the limo hard right -- into GOTHAM PARK -- past
text: the statue of GENERAL WAYNE atop his horse...
scene_heading: INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL - THAT MOMENT
text: A LOCAL TRAIN roars by, filling the screen. When it passes,
text: we see TIPTREE with his suitcase, walking along the express
text: tracks at the far wall of the tunnel -- more frightened with
text: each step. It's dark and eerie down here in the tunnels; the
text: only illumination comes from dim LANTERNS spaced at fifty-foot
dialog: intervals.
text: He sees the lights of an EXPRESS TRAIN behind him, and quickly
text: switches to the local tracks. The train rumbles past with a
text: deafening blare, and the car lights briefly illuminate his
text: surroundings. TIPTREE glances over at the inside wall of the
dialog: tunnel...
text: ...where he sees, huddled in an ALCOVE just off the tracks, a
text: small gathering of HOMELESS PEOPLE. They've set up camp down
text: here in the tunnels, away from the elements. Surrounded by
text: bags full of old clothes, DINING on canned food and cheap
text: wine, they stare curiously at the well-heeled stranger with
text: the suitcase who's invaded their domain.
text: TIPTREE eyes them fearfully and picks up his pace, hastening
text: down the tunnel. The HOMELESS make no move to follow -- with
text: one exception. A KID, thirteen or fourteen, in a ratty
text: topcoat, climbs down onto the tracks and watches inquisitively
text: as TIPTREE vanishes into the shadows.
text: His face is familiar. It's DICK -- the boy vigilante from the
dialog: park.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - FARTHER DOWN TRACKS - A MOMENT LATER
text: In this stretch of the tunnel the LANTERNS don't seem to be
text: working -- and the MYNAH is completely invisible. When he
text: comes to a fork in the tracks, he has to wait for the sound of
text: the bird's shrill voice to guide him:
speaker_heading: MYNAH
text: AWWRRK! FOLLOW ME.
text: TIPTREE stumbles ahead blindly in the darkness. He trips on
text: the tracks and drops the suitcase. As he's getting to his
text: feet, a FLASHLIGHT shines DIRECTLY IN HIS FACE...
speaker_heading: VOICE
dialog: STOP THERE.
text: The MYNAH BIRD flutters through the beam of light and perches
text: on the shoulder of an UNSEEN FIGURE. TIPTREE COWERS and
text: SQUINTS, trying to make him out, but the figure who stands
text: before him is shielding his face with an open UMBRELLA.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: I've cooperated. I've done everything you
dialog: said.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Open the case.
text: TIPTREE lifts the lid, revealirig TWO RAVENS in the suitcase.
text: A CACKLING LAUGH echoes in the darkness.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: ...Two ravens?
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
text: The other one is Bruce Wayne's.
dialog: <i>(trembling)</i>
dialog: He doesn't know anything about this.
dialog: You've got what you want. There's no need
dialog: to --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Thank you, Mr. Tiptree. You may go.
text: TIPTREE stands. He backs away from the suitcase warily.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: My family. You won't --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: We'll certainly take your unexpected
dialog: generosity into consideration.
speaker_heading: TIPTREE
dialog: We -- ?!?
dialog: <i>(shielding his eyes)</i>
dialog: You're not Batman.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: No. I'm his brother-in-law -- Birdman.
dialog: Now move out.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - HIGH ANGLE - THAT MOMENT
text: TIPTREE marches slowly down the tracks, TOWARD CAMERA,
text: silhouetted in the flashlight beam. The beam SHIFTS SLIGHTLY
text: as the Penguin moves toward the suitcase and sets the light
dialog: down --
text: -- and we catch sight of the CATWOMAN perched on a steel
text: cross-girder above the rails, her CHROME-STEEL TALONS GLINTING
text: as she waits for TIPTREE to pass underneath.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - ON TIPTREE
text: looking increasingly twitchy as he approaches the cross-
text: girder. He slips a hand into the pocket of his topcoat,
scene_heading: WHIRLS SUDDENLY --
text: -- and brings up his .38 AUTOMATIC, firing THREE QUICK SHOTS
text: at the PENGUIN. The shots RICOCHET LOUDLY off the umbrella --
text: which happens to be a bulletproof job. The PENGUIN lifts his
text: brolly; FIRE SPITS out of the shaft --
text: -- and TIPTREE staggers backward. SHOT IN THE CHEST. He
text: spins into a steel upright and topples, face-forward, onto the
text: ELECTRIFIED THIRD RAIL -- FRYING HIMSELF in a shower of
dialog: sparks.
text: The smoke is still clearing when the CATWOMAN drops to the
text: tracks. The PENGUIN rushes to her side to check TIPTREE for
text: signs of life.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: That idiot. Another six feet --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: So sorry to spoil your fun. -- He brought
dialog: two ravens. We've got a complete set!
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: What??
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Yeah! They're in the suitcase --
text: An AWFUL RUMBLING fills the tunnel. They see the lights of a
text: TRAIN approaching on the center track -- the same one they're
text: standing on, the one TIPTREE's body is slumped across. The
text: PENGUIN's first impulse is to run back toward the inner track,
text: where the ravens lie, but the CATWOMAN is trying to drag
text: TIPTREE out of the train's path...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: GIVE ME A HAND!
text: They pull the corpse onto the outer express track just as the
text: train arrives. They stand against the outer wall, waiting for
dialog: the train to pass...
text: ...and when it does, they see DICK -- the boy vigilante --
text: standing on the inner track directly across from them.
text: HOLDING THE SUITCASE. The kid takes off like a shot. The
text: CATWOMAN and the PENGUIN exchange quick looks of utter
text: disbelief -- and BOLT AFTER DICK.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - ON DICK
text: The bulky suitcase is slowing his progress. He looks back
text: over his shoulder; although the stubby-legged PENGUIN has
text: fallen well behind, the CATWOMAN is gaining fast.
scene_heading: PAGE 101 MISSING FROM HARD COPY
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - ON DICK
text: watching in the light from the train as the two costumed
text: figures grapple in the distance. He races back toward the
dialog: scene of the melee...
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - OUTTER EXPRESS TRACK - THAT MOMENT
text: ...where BATMAN and the CATWOMAN are trading punches, blow for
text: blow. He knocks her off her feet with a vicious right hook,
text: and she sprawls on the track, dazed and bleeding. She lifts a
dialog: hand: <i>no mas</i>...
text: He looks back toward the suitcase on the center track. Before
text: he can make a move toward it, he spots ANOTHER TRAIN
text: approaching on the outer tracks -- right on the heels of the
text: last one. He crouches to pull the CATWOMAN's limp frame out
dialog: of its path...
text: ...but as he does so, a HORN BLARES -- and a SECOND TRAIN
text: comes barrelling down the center track from the opposite
text: direction! Now he's got trains approaching on either side,
dialog: and there's no place to go --
text: The CATWOMAN is groggily getting to her feet. He LUNGES at
text: her -- THRUSTS HER BACKWARD, toward an ALCOVE in the outer
text: tunnel wall.
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - ON DICK - THAT MOMENT
text: The OUTER train is already speeding past, obscuring BATMAN and
text: the CATWOMAN from view. The CENTER train is bearing down
text: fast. A split-second before it arrives, DICK'S HAND snatches
text: the suitcase out of its path -- and he TUMBLES TO SAFETY on
text: the innermost LOCAL TRACK.
text: He stands and watches as the two trains pass in opposite
text: directions. He doesn't know if BATMAN is alive or dead...
scene_heading: INT. ALCOVE - THAT MOMENT
text: BATMAN and CATWOMAN are flattened in the tiny alcove --
text: there's not two inches of breathing space between them and the
text: passing TRAIN. She's come around now, and she's FLAILING and
text: CLAWING at him, trying to PUSH HIM OUT.
text: HER HAND closes around his UTILITY BELT. As they struggle,
text: she hits the trigger of a SMALL GAS CYLINDER...
text: It's BRUCE's hydraulic BATWING DEVICE -- the one that saved
text: him when he fell off the roof. But this time the results are
text: altogether different. He GASPS IN HORROR as the WINGS OF HIS
text: CAPE stiffen and inflate -- FORCING HIM AWAY FROM THE WALL OF
scene_heading: THE TUNNEL.
text: His OUTER WING strikes the TRAIN -- FLAPPING WILDLY against
text: the passing CARS -- SNAGGING FINALLY on the ralling of the
dialog: rearmost car --
text: -- and BATMAN is suddenly RIPPED OUT OF THE ALCOVE -- DRAGGED
text: OFF DOWN THE TRACKS by the passing train!
scene_heading: INT. TUNNEL - INNERMOST TRACK - ON DICK
text: He's still there with the suitcase -- waiting apprehensively
text: to see what's become of BATMAN. Finally the center train
dialog: passes --
text: -- and he sees CATWOMAN standing ALONE IN THE ALCOVE --
text: smiling at him -- advancing menacingly. DICK TURNS TO RUN...
text: A GUNSHOT rings out -- and the last thing he sees as he slumps
text: to the tracks is a whiff of SMOKE pluming from the shaft of
text: the PENGUIN'S UMBRELLA.
text: The PENGUIN's panting -- soaked with sweat. The CATWOMAN
text: snatches up the suitcase and rushes over to join him. She
text: peers off into the tunnels after BATMAN, exhilarated...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: God. Did you see him? Isn't he hot?
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Haven't you got anything else to think
dialog: about?
dialog: <i>(mopping sweat from his brow)</i>
dialog: I'm hot. That was exhausting.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: No pain, no gain! -- Suck it up. We're
dialog: not out of here yet.
text: She sprints off down the tracks. SQUAWKING, he waddles along
text: behind her, as fast as his fat little legs will carry him...
text: As they vanish into the darkness, the CAMERA TRACKS back --
text: past DICK, who lies unconscious on the tracks, bleeding
text: heavily from his shoulder wound -- DEEPER INTO THE MAZE OF
speaker_heading: TUNNELS --
text: -- arriving finally on the ragged black figure of BATMAN as he
text: staggers forth from the shadows, dazed and bloody. He scans
text: the tunnel, finding no trace of his enemies -- and then his
text: gaze falls on DICK.
text: He limps over and KNEELS at the boy's side -- cradling his
text: head protectively, staring helplessly into the blackness all
dialog: around him...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. GOTHAM CITY SKYLINE - NIGHT
text: The stark outlines of the city, BATHED IN MOONLIGHT. CAMERA
text: ZEROES IN on the glowing, ornamental DOME of CITY HALL...
scene_heading: INT. CITY HALL - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A PENTAGONAL BALCONY girds the interior of the dome. We TILT
text: DOWN to ground level -- where TWO AGED SECURITY GUARDS lie
text: sprawled at odd angles on the marble floor, FATALLY SHOT.
text: The PENGUIN closes his gun-umbrella and waddles across the
text: atrium of City Hall, past a statue of blind Justice, to a
text: point directly under the dome. There, encased in a plexiglass
text: case, is a SCALE MODEL of GOTHAM CITY -- circa 1885, when City
text: Hall was erected. He shouts up:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: LETS DO IT!
scene_heading: INT. CITY HALL - BALCONY UNDER DOME - THAT MOMENT
text: The CATWOMAN, FRICK, and FRACK are already up on the balcony.
text: Lining its periphery are various DISPLAY CASES of historical
text: interest; and positioned along the wall at each point of the
text: pentagon are FIVE ARCHED NICHES -- each one containing a
text: bronze bust. The patriarchs of Gotham's Five Families...
text: The CATWOMAN and co. go to work quickly. She removes the FIVE
text: RAVENS from a gunny sack as FRICK and FRACK work their way
text: around the balcony, YANKING the busts from their recessed
text: bases. She follows along behind them, replacing each bust
text: with a RAVEN.
text: When they're done, the PENGUIN yells up:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Now. Give each raven a quarter-turn.
text: His pals in the dome oblige -- TWISTING each raven in its
text: recessed socket, in quick succession...
scene_heading: INT. CITY HALL - ATRIUM - ON PENGUIN
text: The moment of maximum tension. He stands there frothing at
text: the mouth with anticipation. SECONDS TICK OFF, and nothing
dialog: happens.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: What happens now?
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: I don't know. That's all...!
text: He looks around expectantly as the others peer down at him
text: from above. He really doesn't know what's supposed to happen
text: next. Suspecting the worst, he throws his umbrella to the
text: floor and begins STAMPING ABOUT IN A RAGE, SPUTTERING,
text: flapping his arms like wings.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: We've been TRICKED! It's a HOAX! It's
dialog: a --
text: He SHUTS UP suddenly at the sound of a loud CHUNK. Somewhere
text: behind him, ANCIENT GEARS are beginning to grind. He spins
text: and stares at the SCALE MODEL of GOTHAM in its plexiglass
dialog: case...
text: The city model is TREMBLING slightly. As he watches, the DOME
text: of the miniature CITY HALL -- in the dead center of the model
text: city -- POPS OFF on a hinge. A METAL STRONGBOX rises into
dialog: view...
scene_heading: INT. DOME - ON BALCONY - THAT MOMENT
text: The CATWOMAN, FRICK and FRACK stare down at the little metal
text: box. The PENGUIN is already clambering atop the plexiglass
text: case of the model, SMASHING AT IT with his umbrella, trying to
dialog: get at the box.
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: That's the treasure?
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: No. It's a map...
text: She affixes a ROPE to the balcony railing and CLIMBS OVER.
scene_heading: INT. CITY HALL - ATRIUM - ON PENGUIN
text: The plexiglass case finally SHATTERS -- and the PENGUIN falls
text: through, landing atop Gotham City. He snatches at the
text: strongbox and gets to his feet, bestriding the city like a
text: colossus. He's climbing down off the tabletop when the
text: CATWOMAN, on her rope, touches down behind him.
text: He hunkers down on the floor and knocks the rusted padlock off
text: the box. He opens it and stares greedily at the contents -- a
text: MAP and a bunch of old, crumbling PHOTOS. The CATWOMAN creeps
text: over to his side:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Bruce Wayne. So he doesn't know a thing
dialog: about the treasure, eh...?
dialog: <i>(handing her the map)</i>
dialog: Look at this. It's right under Wayne
dialog: Manor. It's been there all along!
text: Now the CATWOMAN snatches at the PHOTOS. They show
text: progressively closer views of ANCIENT GNARLED STALACTITES --
text: an odd, distinctive SUBTERRANEAN ROCK FORMATION...
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
text: Looks like some kind of cave.
scene_heading: FADE THROUGH TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - GUEST BEDROOM - DAY
text: TIGHT ON THE FACE of DICK. He lies unconscious in a big soft
text: frilly bed A WOMAN'S HAND wipes his feverish brow with a damp
text: cloth; he moans slightly...
text: His eyes snap open suddenly. He sits BOLT UPRIGHT with a
dialog: yelp.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: No, no -- don't try to get up -- you're
dialog: hurt.
text: He pushes her aside and climbs out of bed anyway. His
text: shoulder is bandaged, his arm in a sling. The pajamas he's
text: wearing are three sizes too large. He paces about, staring at
text: his unfamiliar surroundings.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: It's all right. You're safe. You can
dialog: stay here as long as you need to.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I don't belong here. You can't keep me
dialog: here.
text: Vaguely unnerved, he goes to a window, pulls back the shades,
text: looks out at the grounds.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: It's "Dick", isn't it? Or do you prefer
dialog: "Richard"?
text: He stares at her as if she's nuts. VICKI opens a closet door:
text: all of his ratty belongings are hanging inside -- including
text: the red-and-green GYMNAST'S SUIT with the "R" insigne on the
dialog: breast.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: "R" -- for Richard, right? See, all your
dialog: things are here...
dialog: <i>(staring at the costume)</i>
dialog: What is it, some kind of gymnast's outfit?
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: It's none of your business. What is this,
dialog: some kind of home?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: No, not that kind. There's a swimming
dialog: pool -- tennis court -- you can have
dialog: anything you want.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Tennis court?! -- Lady, you're rich. How
dialog: the hell would you know what I want?
text: VICKI tries to lay a soothing arm on his shoulder. He bats it
text: away, pushes her aside and turns toward the door in
dialog: agitation --
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I'm not staying. You can't make me --
text: -- and sees BRUCE standing in the doorway looking at him.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I can make you.
text: DICK freezes -- as if BRUCE's mere presence has mesmerized
text: him. The hint of a smile plays across his face: ohhhhh. I'm
text: in Batman's house.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Come on. Wanna go at it?
dialog: <i>(no response)</i>
dialog: Look, kid -- like it or not, you're my
dialog: guest -- and long as you're here you might
dialog: as well enjoy it.
text: ALFRED appears with a tray of hot food and sets it down on a
text: bedside table. DICK edges toward it and sits down. He waits
text: for ALFRED to leave and then TUCKS IN HUNGRILY -- eyeing BRUCE
dialog: all the while.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (cont.)
dialog: Will you two be okay in here?
text: VICKI nods yes. BRUCE backs out of the room.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - OUTSIDE GUEST ROOM - DAY
text: BRUCE pulls the door shut. ALFRED follows him down the hall.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: What do you propose to do with him, sir?
dialog: Keep him in the room for the rest of his
dialog: life?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I don't know, Alfred. I've got other
dialog: stuff to worry about.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: The child is hurt, sir. At the very least
dialog: we should attempt to locate his parents.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He hasn't got any parents.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: How do you know that, sir?
text: BRUCE turns and fixes ALFRED with a steely gaze.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...I know.
text: The PHONE RINGS as BRUCE starts down the long stairway.
text: ALFRED picks up a hallway extension. He covers the
dialog: mouthpiece:
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Sir -- it's Miss Kyle.
text: BRUCE rushes back upstairs to take the call.
scene_heading: INT. PENGUIN'S LAIR - THAT MOMENT - DAY
text: ARCTIC BIRDS chirping all around in the penguin-pool room. A
text: SNOW OWL struts across the PENGUIN's desk as SELINA makes a
text: phone call -- with the PENGUIN, FRICK, and FRACK hovering over
dialog: her.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Well! Tall, dark and handsome. Are we
dialog: still on for tonight?
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ON BRUCE
text: He covers the receiver and stares intensely at ALFRED. On his
dialog: look we
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - FRONT PARLOR - NIGHT
text: Christmas carols playing. VICKI's got DICK helping her trim
dialog: the tree.
scene_heading: INT. BRUCE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: BRUCE is getting dressed for his date with SELINA.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Is this necessary, sir? After all...it is
dialog: Christmas eve.
text: BRUCE reaches for his UTILITY BELT. He empties the contents
text: of one packet onto a dresser: a dozen tiny, red GLASSINE
text: CAPSULES. He scoops up a handful of the CAPSULES and deposits
text: them in his jacket pocket.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Stuff'll knock out a moose, much less a
dialog: cat.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I don't like to see you going out on a
dialog: date...unprotected, sir.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: She'll be ready for Batman -- but not for
dialog: me.
dialog: <i>(turning to go)</i>
dialog: It's the only way, Alfred. I've got to
dialog: take her out tonight.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL - FIVE MINUTES LATER (DICK'S POV)
text: DICK watches from the front parlor as VICKI meets BRUCE at the
text: bottom of the stairs. The two of them exchange a few brief
text: words; he embraces her, strokes her hair gently -- then glumly
text: sets his jaw and moves off toward the front door.
text: VICKI reenters the parlor, trying to force an expression of
text: cheer as DICK turns discreetly away. This is one weird
dialog: household he's landed in...
scene_heading: INT. SELINA'S LOFT - NIGHT
text: SOFT MUSIC plays in the background as SELINA preens in front
text: of a vanity, doing her eye makeup, taking great pleasure in
text: her own reflection. She's looking especially sultry tonight
text: in a glittering low-cut gown. She lowers one shoulder strap
text: and strikes a pose in the mirror: better. She runs a hand
text: through her hair, TOUSLING IT for that recently-ravished look.
text: The DOORBELL rings, and by the time SELINA crosses over to
text: answer it, she's lowered the other strap as well -- which
text: means she has to hold up the top of her dress with one hand.
text: BRUCE finds himsell dumbstruck as she lets him in. She pulls
text: up both straps as she greets him nonchalantly:
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You're early. I'm afraid I'm not quite
dialog: dressed.
text: BRUCE enters and takes a long look around. It's a big open
text: loft, only partly finished, filled with Egyptian artifacts.
text: The walls feature modern paintings with CAT MOTIFS. The
text: finished section is dominated by a huge BED on a raised
text: platform -- three or four CATS are walking around on it,
text: yowling at BRUCE. SELINA CHUCKLES as he scopes it all out.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: If you're looking for my bondage gear,
text: it's at the cleaners.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Christmas eve. No tree?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: No presents. I've been a bad girl this
dialog: year.
text: BRUCE takes a seat on the sofa while SELINA goes to a nearby
dialog: wet bar.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I'm surprised you kept this date. I
dialog: thought you would've lost interest by now.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: What makes you say that?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: You've got what you want, don't you?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I do now.
dialog: <i>(smiling)</i>
dialog: We've had this date for a long, long time.
text: With that, she sets the drinks down on the table and moves in
text: to KISS him -- a long, slow, wet kiss. But BRUCE seems
text: strangely unresponsive. She breaks free and gives him a funny
dialog: look.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: How much is it going to cost me?
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: What?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...To get the ravens back.
text: He watches her closely for a reaction. SELINA's shocked, but
text: she conceals it well -- chuckling in apparent confusion.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You're the oddest man I've ever met.
dialog: <i>(moving in on him)</i>
dialog: Let's talk later, Bruce. I've got kind of
text: a short fuse...
text: BRUCE tenses slightly as she KISSES him again -- leaving a
text: crimson LIPSTICK SMEAR on his cheek. She works her way
text: downward, kissing him around his neck and throat...
text: HIS HAND reaches into his jacket pocket. He withdraws a tiny
text: GLASSINE CAPSULE. But before he can use it --
text: He JERKS BACK suddenly -- pushes her away. His free hand goes
text: to his neck, where a thin trickle of BLOOD is oozing from
text: between two bright red LIPSTICK LIPS. She's bitten him...
text: Now she SHUSHES him -- reaches over to the tiny wound and
text: massages it gently with one hand.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Did I hurt you? Just relax -- you'll
dialog: start to enjoy it.
text: BRUCE pulls away again. His eyes are strangely glazed. He
text: tries to speak, but his tongue feels thick and swollen.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Bruce, you look faint. It must be the
dialog: cats.
text: BRUCE stands suddenly. It's as if he's mired in a slo-mo
text: nightmare. His legs give way beneath him and he topples to
text: the floor, INERT. His fingers go slack and the capsule rolls
text: out; he tries to reach into his pocket, but his arm won't seem
dialog: to work.
text: SELINA's cat, HECATE, strolls across his prostrate form --
text: purring and stretching...
speaker_heading: BRUCE'S POV
text: A worm's-eye view -- SELINA looms over him with a predatory
text: smile on her face, shifting in and out of focus.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: What di-- what did you d--
text: She runs a finger across her lips and holds it up -- bright
dialog: red.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I guess I've...gotten under your skin.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE
text: His hand goes to the BITE on his neck -- and he realizes
text: SELINA's lipstick is spiked with a fast-acting PARALYTIC DRUG.
text: He writhes helplessly on the carpet, his whole body gradually
dialog: going slack.
text: The PENGUIN, FRICK and FRACK stroll through the doorway and
text: stand over him -- ALL LAUGHING...
speaker_heading: DISSOLVE TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: A COUNTY SHERIFF'S CAR cruises past the manor, right on
dialog: schedule.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - PARLOR - NIGHT
text: ALFRED on the telephone, checking in with the County Sheriff's
dialog: boys.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Everything's fine, thank you. We'll talk
dialog: in an hour.
text: Behind him, VICKI is waiting up for BRUCE. She's curled up on
text: the sofa, reading a book, throwing the occasional anxious
text: glance at a big grandfather clock -- which strikes eleven
dialog: o'clock.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT
text: DICK opens the bedroom door and peeks down the hall. He's got
text: all his belongings tied up in a bundle on the bed; he opens a
text: window and throws the bundle outside.
text: There's a nice strong TREE BRANCH some ten or twelve feet from
text: the window -- just close enough that he should be able to make
text: it. He climbs up onto the windowsill, crouches, and SPRINGS.
scene_heading: INT. CAR - OUTSIDE - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: A car full of trouble: SELINA, wearing a fur coat over her
text: Catwoman garb, at the wheel; the PENGUIN riding shotgun; and
text: FRICK in the back seat -- next to BRUCE, who's semi-conscious
text: and stone limp. The car idles outside the wrought-iron gates
dialog: of Wayne Manor.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Try his mag card.
text: FRICK digs in BRUCE's pockets and finds a bunch of RED
speaker_heading: CAPSULES.
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Look at this. He's a pillhead.
text: Now FRICK finds a mag-striped card and INSERTS IT into an
text: electronic device at the edge of the drive. The gates
text: magically part. There's a large VAN just behind the car --
text: driven by FRACK, and carrying two random GOONS. Both vehicles
text: pull in before the gates slide shut.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - A MOMENT LATER
text: VICKI hears a signal from the security panel in the kitchen
text: announcing what should be BRUCE's arrival. She heaves a huge
text: sigh of relief -- then rushes to the door and flings it open.
text: She sees BRUCE standing there and her face lights up.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Ohh. Am I glad to --
text: To her horror, BRUCE topples forward -- and lands on the
text: floor, flat as a board. VICKI SHRIEKS as the PENGUIN enters,
text: throwing his arms wide.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
scene_heading: MER-R-R-RY CHRISTMAS!!
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: DICK has shimmied down to a lower branch. He lets go and
text: drops to the snow, WINCING; his shoulder wound is bleeding
text: again. As he grabs his bundle, he hears RAUCOUS LAUGHTER
text: coming from around the house.
text: He races over to peer around the corner. He sees the two cars
text: out front. He sees the last of the goon squad barging in
text: through the front door.
text: His face full of confusion and conflict, he moves to a window.
text: In the entry hall he sees BRUCE on the floor -- and VICKI
text: surrounded by gun-toting intruders. One of them grabs her and
text: twists her arm behind her back.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ENTRY - THAT MOMENT
text: VICKI shrieking and struggling as she stares down at BRUCE.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What did you do to him??
text: SELINA gives her a catty little smile.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: First-time jitters, I guess. Everything
dialog: was going great, and then...he just went
text: limp as a noodle.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ON STAIRWAY
text: Drawn by the commotion, ALFRED rushes down the stairs to the
text: entry hall, pulling a robe around him. He freezes in his
text: tracks when he sees FRICK dragging VICKI into the front
text: parlor, holding a gun to her head.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: You'd be the butler. Why don't you come
dialog: on down and attend to your guests?
text: ALFRED hesitates, until the PENGUIN pulls a gun on him. He
text: marches down the stairs slowly, pausing by BRUCE's prostrate
dialog: form.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Mr. Wayne. Is he -- ?
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: You know how it is. Some guys just can't
dialog: hold their egg nog.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - A MOMENT LATER
text: The PENGUIN marches ALFRED in where the rest of the gang's
text: already assembled. FRICK throws VICKI down roughly on a sofa
text: just next to the Christmas tree while the GOONS drag BRUCE
dialog: inside.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: I should explain the occasion of our
dialog: visit. There's a treasure underneath this
dialog: house -- and I don't plan to leave until
dialog: you tell me how to find it. Now who's
dialog: going to talk -- Miss Vale?
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: I don't know what you're talking about.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: The cave. Under the house. How do I get
dialog: there?
text: The PENGUIN gestures. FRICK holds the gun to her head.
speaker_heading: VICKI (cont.)
dialog: I don't know! I swear, I would tell
dialog: you --
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: <i>(turning to ALFRED)</i>
dialog: Then maybe you'd like to tell me.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: You're no more than a common thief.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Wrong, you old idiot. I happen to be a
dialog: very uncommon thief.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: Are you going to tell me, or does Miss
dialog: Vale get an early present this year?
text: FRICK cocks the gun. VICKI stares aghast at ALFRED, who scans
text: the room, weighing his options. Trembling, he shuts his
dialog: eyes --
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I...don't...know...
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Then go ahead, Mr. Frick...decorate the
dialog: tree.
text: FRICK's finger tightens on the trigger. VICKI winces. ALFRED
text: starts to blurt something out. But a split-second before he
dialog: can speak --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Wait!
dialog: <i>(crossing over to VICKI)</i>
dialog: We don't know how to get down there yet.
dialog: We may need her when Bruce wakes up.
text: The PENGUIN sighs and waves FRICK off. ALFRED and VICKI heave
text: simultaneous sighs of relief. He throws her a shamefaced look
text: -- but she gives him a tiny nod of acknowledgement: you made
dialog: the right play.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Besides -- I want this one for myself. So
dialog: pretty...I'm going to give her a brand new
dialog: face for Christmas.
text: The PENGUIN throws a look at BRUCE, who's still out cold on
text: the floor. He turns to FRICK and FRACK.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Why don't you two tie up our host?
text: ALFRED sits beside VICKI while SELINA wanders off to tour the
text: premises. FRICK and FRACK, meanwhile, drag BRUCE into a back
text: parlor which opens off the room they're in.
scene_heading: INT. BACK PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
text: They dump BRUCE face down on a sofa -- then rip the telephone
text: cords from around the baseboard and use them to bind his hands
dialog: and feet.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - ON MR. BONIFACE
text: Still holding his gun on VICKI and ALFRED, he wanders about
text: the room, admiring the various furnishings and expensive
dialog: objects.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: It's all so plush and tasteful, isn't it?
dialog: Just the sort of setting in which I've
dialog: always imagined myself.
text: ALFRED, on the sofa, can't resist letting out a snort of
dialog: disgust.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: I see. You think I'm vulgar. You think
dialog: I'm...<i>nouveau</i>.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: I think you're a dirty little man with
dialog: a --
text: The PENGUIN silences him by sweeping one arm across a
text: tabletop, sending a bunch of PRICELESS CHINA FIGURINES
text: crashing to the floor. He points to ALFRED as FRICK and FRACK
text: reappear.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: See, boys, that's old money talking.
text: After a while, they actually start to
dialog: believe they've earned all this.
dialog: <i>(smirking)</i>
dialog: I don't mind. Someday I'll be old money
dialog: too -- when the statute of limitations
text: runs out.
speaker_heading: SELINA (O.S.)
dialog: Hey! -- Guess what I just found.
text: Face full of anticipation, he TURNS -- just in time to see
text: SELINA returning from the kitchen with a big silver tray of...
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: Christmas cookies!
text: The PENGUIN is crestfallen, but that doesn't stop him from
text: cramming a handful of cookies down his gullet. SELINA
text: graciously serves VICKI and ALFRED, who munch away with
dialog: limited enthusiasm.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Let's spread out and see what we can find.
scene_heading: <i>(to FRICK and FRACK)</i>
dialog: You two -- keep an eye on our friends
dialog: here. Give me a yell the minute Wayne
dialog: comes to.
text: FRICK and FRACK post themselves at the doors to the front
text: parlor as SELINA, the PENGUIN and the GOONS fan out through
text: the house. CAMERA TRACKS WITH THEM as they move past BRUCE --
text: -- and in a quick CLOSEUP we see his EYES OPEN -- his hands
text: STRUGGLING against his bonds.
speaker_heading: SERIES OF SHOTS
text: QUICK GLIMPSES of the intruders enacting their depredations as
text: they search for the entrance to the cave. SELINA and the
text: PENGUIN are flinging open doors, moving clocks, looking for
text: secret panels; as they go, they systematically TEAR THE HOUSE
text: APART -- smashing BRUCE's possessions, ripping paintings out
dialog: of frames, etc.
text: Meanwhile, the TWO GOONS are outside prowling around the
text: grounds, looking for an exterior entrance -- and back in the
text: parlor, FRICK and FRACK are keeping their guns trained on
speaker_heading: ALFRED and VICKI.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - CORRIDOR OFF KITCHEN - NIGHT
text: CAMERA TRACKS down a long, empty hallway -- arriving at a
text: LOCKED DOOR with curtained-off glass panels. Suddenly, an
text: ELBOW smashes through the glass -- a hand reaches inside and
dialog: fumbles for the lock --
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
text: FRICK and FRACK start at the sound of a SECURITY ALARM blaring
text: from the kitchen. VICKI looks at ALFRED...
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Better check it out.
text: FRICK stays behind as FRACK rushes out into the entryway and
text: down a long hall to the kitchen. He tosses a glance back at
text: VICKI and ALFRED, then steps out into the entryway himself.
speaker_heading: FRICK (cont.)
dialog: What is it? What's going on??
text: VICKI and ALFRED look into the back parlor. DICK GRAYSON has
text: sneaked in behind the sofa -- and he's busy sawing away at
text: BRUCE's bonds with a letter opener. Both of them stiffen
text: simultaneously -- if FRICK steps back inside, he'll have a
text: clear view of DICK and BRUCE.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - THAT MOMENT
text: FRACK has opened a panel on the kitchen wall, revealing the
text: SECURITY SYSTEM from which the alarm emanates. A RED LIGHT is
text: blinking, indicating DICK's break-in. FRACK throws switches
text: frantically, trying to kill the sound. Finally he succeeds --
speaker_heading: and SHOUTS:
speaker_heading: FRACK
dialog: Some kind of security system --
scene_heading: INT. BACK PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
text: DICK's gotten BRUCE free -- but BRUCE, still under the effects
text: of the drug, isn't much use. He tries to get off the sofa and
text: crumples in a heap.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Can you move, man?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Library -- got to get me to the library --
text: DICK slings an arm around BRUCE and drags him to a door
text: opening onto the hallway. They're just about to step outside
text: when FRACK comes marching back on his way from the kitchen.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - ON VICKI AND ALFRED
text: -- faces wracked with utter, desperate tension as they watch
dialog: the situation develop.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL - THAT MOMENT
text: FRICK and FRACK conferring, ignoring VICKI and ALFRED for the
text: moment. By now the PENGUIN is waddling in from a hallway:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: What is that ungodly racket?
speaker_heading: FRACK
text: A security alarm. It went off in the
dialog: kitchen.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: My God! Is someone in here?
text: He struts over to huddle with his cronies. BRUCE and DICK are
text: still poised in the doorway. It looks bad...
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
text: ALFRED looks at BRUCE and DICK -- then at FRICK and FRACK
text: bickering with the PENGUIN in the entryway. He pats VICKI's
text: knee -- gestures for her to keep her seat --
text: -- and LUNGES at FRICK, making a play for his gun. A moment
text: of confusion ensues -- giving DICK and BRUCE just enough time
text: to dart out into the hallway, duck around a corner, and
dialog: vanish --
text: -- but ALFRED is a frail old gent, and he can't keep it up for
text: long; a blow to the face sends him sprawling to the floor.
text: FRICK instinctively pulls the trigger and SHOOTS HIM at point-
dialog: blank range.
text: VICKI rushes into the hallway -- screaming, crying.
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - THAT MOMENT
text: The room's a mess, books all over the floor. The groggy BRUCE
text: props himself up against his desk. He manages to pull the
text: bottom drawer open -- gropes frantically for the secret
text: switch. He's CRYING.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Alfred...
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: I'll go back.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I can't...get down there...without you.
text: DICK turns. To his amazement, the sectional bookcase is
text: swinging open -- revealing the secret passage to the BATCAVE.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL/FRONT PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
dialog: We will all be pleased to know that ALFRED has only suffered a
text: superficial wound to the arm. VICKI is on her knees beside
text: him; the PENGUIN is watching them with utter contempt.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: What an extraordinarily stupid thing to
dialog: do.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: SHUT UP. Help me with him.
text: The PENGUIN rolls his eyes and orders FRICK and FRACK to give
text: VICKI a hand without him. They carry him into the parlor, lay
text: him out on the sofa. VICKI reaches into her purse for a
text: handkerchief and begins binding his wound as the PENGUIN pulls
speaker_heading: FRACK aside.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: You and I had better check the ground
dialog: floor and see what's going on. Mr. Frick
dialog: -- do you think you'll be able to manage
dialog: this pair?
speaker_heading: FRICK
dialog: Yes sir.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Oh, good. That does relieve my mind --
text: He turns, glances into the back parlor, and sees a pile of CUT
text: CORDS on the love seat. The blood drains out of his face.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: Where's Wayne???
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - THAT MOMENT
text: DICK has just entered another world -- and he's looking around
text: him in pure, unalloyed amazement. BRUCE is fumbling with a
text: packet on a spare UTILITY BELT; he shakes out a fistful of
text: pills and swallows them dry.
text: Then he goes to his bank of monitors and begins flipping
text: switches. They blink on one by one; DICK moves up behind
text: BRUCE and looks on, dazzled.
scene_heading: INSERT - MONITOR
text: The screen shows The PENGUIN in a sun room, shouting to his
text: two armed GOONS through a pair of French doors.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Check the grounds! The shape he's in, he
dialog: can't have gotten far.
scene_heading: BACK TO SCENE - ON BRUCE
text: He turns to his main control panel, reaches for a switch, and
dialog: waits.
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - THAT MOMENT - NIGHT
text: The two GOONS outside, with guns and flashlights, roaming
text: cautiously around the grounds. They turn suddenly --
text: -- as CORRUGATED-STEEL SECURITY PANELS slam into place over
dialog: every ground-floor door and window in Wayne Manor!
scene_heading: INT. SUN ROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: The PENGUIN sees the same thing happening, only from inside.
text: He listens helplessly as his GOONS pound on the steel panels
text: from outside. It's just occurred to him that he's trapped in
dialog: here...
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - A MOMENT LATER
text: DICK is up on a catwalk leading back to the library of Wayne
text: Manor. BRUCE shouts up to him from the control console down
dialog: below.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
text: -- as soon as he gets to the East wing.
dialog: Wait for my signal. You know what to do.
text: DICK nods yes and bolts off.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - A MOMENT LATER
text: VICKI and ALFRED are still sitting at gunpoint. With the
text: commotion going on all around them, FRICK is getting itchy-
text: fingered.
text: Suddenly the STEREO begins blaring at top volwne -- "SANTA
text: BRING MY BABY BACK TO ME." FRICK turns and stares at it in
text: confusion -- goes over to fiddle with the controls --
text: -- and suddenly BRUCE'S VOICE is coming through the
text: loudspeakers.
speaker_heading: BRUCE (O.S.; filter)
dialog: VICKI! RUN! NOW!
text: She's off the sofa like a shot, DIVING for the entry hall.
text: FRICK turns and takes aim --
text: -- but before he can squeeze the trigger, DICK's come out of
text: nowhere to HIGH-KICK him in the face! The shot goes wild and
text: the two of them tumble into the Christmas tree, knocking it
dialog: over...
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL - THAT MOMENT
text: VICKI hits the floor of the entry hall. HUGE OAKEN SLIDING
text: DOORS are already slamming shut behind her. The same thing is
text: happening all down the hall -- the East wing of the house is
dialog: sealing itself off!
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - THAT MOMENT
text: DICK CARTWHEELS across the carpet -- catching FRICK high on
text: the chest and RAMMING him backward, into the hearth. Before
text: FRICK can regain his balance, DICK's BEANED HIM across the
text: back of the skull with a fireplace poker.
text: He bends and picks up FRICK's gun -- which he tosses to
text: ALFRED, who's been watching all this with some fascination
text: from the sofa.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: Here. You might need it.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Thank you, Master Dick. And...bravo.
scene_heading: INT. KITCHEN - THAT MOMENT
text: VICKI has made it to the wall phone. She can't seem to get a
dialog: dial tone --
scene_heading: VOICE FROM BEHIND
dialog: Do you really think we're that stupid?
text: VICKI turns, and realizes to her horror that the VOICE is
speaker_heading: SELINA's.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: I tawt I taw a puddy tat...!!
text: With that she raises a hand -- and her CLAWS pop out. VICKI
text: turns, grabs a carving knife from a wooden block -- but before
text: she can do anything with it, a WHIP cracks and wraps around
text: her wrist, jerking the knife loose. SELINA tugs on the other
text: end, reeling her closer.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: You know, I've got a great recipe for
dialog: Sliced Bitch --
text: VICKI lunges forward suddenly, causing the whip to slacken and
text: throwing SELINA off-balance into the center island. While
text: they're tangled up, VICKI grabs a MEAT CLEAVER and tries to
text: bring it down on SELINA, but SELINA rolls effortlessly out of
text: the way and returns the favor, SWIPING at VICKI with her
text: claws. VICKI brings a Calphalon skillet up just in time to
text: block the blow: CLANG.
text: VICKI sweeps her arm across the countertop, showering SELINA
text: with knives and appliances. It buys her enough time to make
text: for the door -- but SELINA comes flying after her. Another
text: downswipe with the claws -- but VICKI shoves a BUTCHER'S BLOCK
text: into SELINA's path, and her TALONS wedge a half-inch deep in
dialog: the wood.
text: VICKI rushes out while she's trying to pry herself loose.
scene_heading: INT. DINING HALL - A MOMENT LATER
text: SELINA enters but finds no trace of VICKI.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: I love a good old-fashioned catfight --
dialog: but this is pissing me off.
text: VICKI charges out from behind a sideboard, pushing a WHEELED
text: COCKTAIL CART before her. It SLAMS full-force into SELINA,
text: who lands on her back on the great long dining table. VICKI
text: is in the doorway to the entry hall by the time she gets up.
scene_heading: INT. ENTRY HALL - STAIRWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: VICKI races up the stairs. She has a good lead, but SELINA
text: makes up the difference in a hurry. She takes the stairway in
text: three giant bounds -- reaches the landing just as VICKI ducks
text: down the hall and into a bedroom, slamming the door behind her
text: and LOCKING IT.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: HERE, kitty kitty kitty...HERE, kitty
dialog: kitty...
text: She KICKS THE DOOR OPEN.
scene_heading: INT. BEDROOM - THAT MOMENT
text: SELINA enters and strikes a coy pose as she shuts the door
text: behind her. VICKI has opened a pair of French doors leading
text: to a balcony, but it's too long a drop. She stands there
text: paralyzed as SELINA advances.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: So this is where you earn your keep.
text: She GRABS VICKI -- holds her out at arm's length and shoves
text: her roughly back onto the bed. VICKI flails wildly as SELINA
text: kneels atop her...
text: SELINA's CLAWS shred VICKI's blouse, revealing a frilly
dialog: section of bra --
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Mmm! Frederick's of Gotham?
text: She plants a talon against VICKI's sternum and RAKES IT
text: DOWNWARD, drawing a RED STRIPE on the exposed flesh of VICKI's
text: belly. Now VICKI just loses it. She begins to SHRIEK
text: uncontrollably.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Not so loud, honey! The neighbors'll get
dialog: the wrong idea.
dialog: <i>(laughing)</i>
dialog: Santa's coming. Time for all good girls
dialog: to go to sleep...
text: She raises her claw-hand and prepares to slash down at VICKI's
text: neck. But an instant before she can strike -- VICKI goes
text: wide-eyed and shuts up. A BLACK SHADOW falls across the
text: moonlit bed. SELINA tenses --
text: -- as a BLACK-GLOVED HAND grabs a fistful of her hair --
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Miss me, "Angel"?
text: He yanks her bodily off the bed. Before she knows what's
text: happening, he delivers a POWERHOUSE UPPERCUT. She flies into
text: the door and knocks it cleanly off its hinges.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY/STAIRCASE - A MOMENT LATER
text: BATMAN steps out after SELINA, who's only now picking herself
dialog: up.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Okay -- let's do it, huh? You and me...
dialog: all the way this time.
text: She HISSES and jumps him. They grapple -- a quick flurry of
text: fists -- and he knocks her ass-over-teakettle down the long
dialog: stairway.
text: She gets to her feet, limping, and darts around a corner.
text: BATMAN marches implacably down the stairs, taking his time...
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: VICKI rushes out of the bedroom. She looks down the hall and
text: sees FRACK flying out of the guest room, UPSIDE DOWN --
text: slamming into the wall opposite. He slumps to the carpet, out
dialog: cold.
text: A moment later DICK strolls out. VICKI rushes to his side --
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Come on. We'll be safe in the cave.
scene_heading: INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY/ARMORY - A MOMENT LATER
text: BATMAN PAUSES outside the door to the armory, which is
text: slightly ajar. He pushes it in cautiously...
text: ...and a HALBERD smashes through the wood frame -- slicing
text: down mere inches from his face. It's the PENGUIN wielding the
text: ax; he backs off in seeming terror as BATMAN advances on him.
dialog: But then --
text: -- SELINA springs down from a perch above the doors -- landing
text: on his back -- and the two of them are going at it again.
text: It's a room full of exotic weaponry, and most of it gets a
text: good workout in the next thirty seconds.
text: BATMAN dodges a LANCE -- which embeds itself into the wall
text: behind him, QUIVERING -- and swings a MACE squarely into
text: SELINA's ribs. It's a crippling blow; she flies backward,
text: knocking over a suit of exotic armor -- which TOPPLES,
text: knocking over another -- and another --
text: -- until the various suits of armor have all fallen over,
text: domino-style -- the last of them landing squarely atop the
text: cowering PENGUIN.
text: SELINA is badly hurt now. She makes it out of a rear door to
text: the armory. BATMAN pauses to check on the PENGUIN -- he seems
text: to be out for the count -- and sets off in pursuit of SELINA.
text: SEVERAL MOMENTS PASS before the groaning PENGUIN comes around
dialog: enough to dig himself out.
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: As the PENGUIN stumbles around a corner, he peers into the
text: LIBRARY. VICKI is crouched by BRUCE's desk, reaching into a
text: bottom drawer. A hidden panel in the bookcase pops open...
scene_heading: INT. LIBRARY - THAT MOMENT
text: As she helps ALFRED into the secret passageway, VICKI turns to
speaker_heading: DICK:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Come on. Come with us.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: No. I can still help...
scene_heading: INT. HALLWAY - A MOMENT LATER
text: The PENGUIN flattens against the wall as DICK sprints out of
text: the library and heads off in the opposite direction. There's
text: a flabbergasted look on his face -- he recognizes this kid.
speaker_heading: WIPE TO:
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - A MINUTE LATER
text: At the monitor bank, watching BATMAN's pursuit of SELINA, are
text: VICKI and ALFRED. They pivot suddenly at the sound of a
speaker_heading: VOICE:
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Such primitive entertainment.
text: He's holding a gun on the two of them. He stares about
text: delightedly, taking in the prehistoric splendor of the cave.
text: His eyes light up at the sight of the BATMOBILE, parked on its
dialog: little plateau.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN (cont.)
dialog: So Bruce equals Batman. It seems I've
dialog: discovered two treasures!
dialog: <i>(an evil smile)</i>
dialog: Don't move. I'd be only too happy to
dialog: shoot you both.
text: He pulls out his packet of photos and begins to scan the cave.
text: He spots the distinctive ROCK FORMATION in an upper vault of
text: the cavern. It's a couple of plateaus over; a long narrow
text: CATWALK runs past it, some ten or twelve feet below.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
text: The Gotham City Treasury. It's about to
dialog: be stolen twice.
speaker_heading: ALFRED
dialog: Don't be absurd. You'll never be able to
dialog: get it out of here.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Oh, I'll manage somehow. You two are my
dialog: guarantee of that.
dialog: <i>(nudging VICKI with the gun)</i>
dialog: Let's have a look, shall we? You go
dialog: first.
text: He shoves her. She starts across the catwalk, his gun at her
dialog: head.
scene_heading: INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - THAT MOMENT
text: SELINA's made it back upstairs, but she's moving at quarter-
text: speed, favoring one leg and clutching her ribs as she lopes
text: down the hallway. She's just passed the balcony overlooking
text: the entry hall when BATMAN appears dead ahead in her path.
text: He's ready to rumble -- but instead of responding, she packs
text: it in. She stops, slumps against a wall and begins to laugh.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: It could've been so nice -- you and me --
dialog: if only you weren't so screwed up.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: It's over. I don't want to hurt you any
dialog: more.
speaker_heading: SELINA
dialog: Tell me something -- one thing. If you
dialog: don't enjoy all this...why do you do it?
text: He just looks at her. He doesn't have an especially good
text: answer. She sighs.
speaker_heading: SELINA (cont.)
dialog: I'll never understand men.
text: She SPINS SUDDENLY, delivering a high-kick to BATMAN's throat.
text: As he reels backward, into a wall, she leaps up onto the
text: narrow BANNISTER RAILING some thirty feet above the entry hall
text: floor and goes into a CROUCH -- preparing to SPRING at the
text: enormous crystal CHANDELIER mounted to the ceiling --
text: -- but just as she launches off, BATMAN rolls -- and brings up
text: a GUN from his belt. He fires a RAZOR-SHARP DISK which sails
text: past her head, cleanly SLICING THROUGH the chain which
text: suspends the chandelier.
text: The chandelier FALLS just as CATWOMAN catches hold of it --
text: and she finds herself PLUMMETING to the floor of the entry
text: hall. On impact, the chandelier EXPLODES into a thousand
text: fragments; the CATWOMAN lands hard on her back and lies
text: sprawled in the midst of the wreckage, unmoving.
text: BATMAN advances slowly down the stairs. Her arms and legs jut
text: out at unnatural angles; she lets out an eerie, whimpering
text: YOWL OF PAIN -- a cri du chat. He stands over her; she glares
text: up at him.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: Nine lives.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
text: I can't move. I can't move.
text: Her face is cut and bleeding. She tries to lift an arm and
text: can't quite manage it. He crouches down beside her, still
dialog: cautious...
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN (cont.)
dialog: DON'T LOOK AT ME!!
dialog: <i>(pleading)</i>
dialog: Do me, baby...do me now...that's what I
dialog: want. Please?
text: BATMAN looks up. DICK is standing on the balcony overlooking
text: them, highly curious as to what he'll do.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: No.
text: BATMAN slowly rises to his feet. She lets out another
text: gruesome WHINE.
speaker_heading: CATWOMAN
dialog: COME ON. Don't stop now. FINISH ME OFF.
dialog: <i>(almost weeping with pain)</i>
dialog: Son of a bitch. You're all alike...
text: Her STEEL CLAWS snick into place. With an agonizing effort
text: she lifts her forearm -- bends her wrist. She's trying to
text: slit her own throat.
text: He reaches for his belt, extracts a GLASSINE CAPSULE, and
text: breaks it open with his thumb. He drops it amid the shattered
text: glass around her face. A tiny cloud of GREEN GAS plumes out,
text: and her hand falls limply at her side as she lapses into
text: unconsciousness.
text: BATMAN stands over her for a minute as DICK marches down to
dialog: join him.
speaker_heading: DICK
dialog: You should've done it, man. You should've
dialog: killed her.
text: BATMAN gives him a long, hard look -- but says nothing.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
dialog: There's a radio in the cave. We'll send
dialog: for help.
scene_heading: INT. BATCAVE - A MOMENT LATER
text: The PENGUIN and VICKI are on a catwalk just below the ROCK
text: FORMATION. A STONE OUTCROPPING extends toward the catwalk,
text: and he forces her to JUMP FOR IT. Now he has to follow; the
text: prospect makes him nervous, but it's a short hop, and he
text: clears it okay -- finding his footing on the rocky slope.
text: They're cautiously making their way up toward the ROCK
text: FORMATION when BATMAN appears suddenly at the far end of the
text: catwalk -- sizes up the situation and FREEZES IN HIS TRACKS.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
dialog: Ah, the illustrious Mr. Wayne. Look at
dialog: you now. Whatever would your friends say?
dialog: <i>(smiling)</i>
dialog: You've been an exceptionally congenial
dialog: host -- but I must ask you to back off.
text: The PENGUIN grabs hold of VICKI and HOLDS HER CLOSE as they
text: climb the last few feet toward the grotto. BATMAN swings his
text: cape around, concealing his hands from view. He takes a
text: cautious step backward.
scene_heading: CLOSEUP - BATMAN'S HAND
text: His free hand closes around a BATARANG -- flicks it open.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON ROCKS - PENGUIN AND VICKI
text: They've pulled almost even with the rock formation. A LARGE
text: DANK GROTTO is visible through a small gap in the rocks.
speaker_heading: PENGUIN
text: No sudden moves. It's a long way down.
text: Gun at her head, he peers into the grotto...
scene_heading: HIS POV - INSIDE THE GROTTO
text: A VAST FORTUNE in GOLD and SILVER BULLION, undisturbed in all
text: these years. GLINTING in the darkness. Hanging upside-down,
text: above it, like silent guardians, are BATS -- DOZENS of them --
text: their tiny wet red eyes GLIMMERING at the PENGUIN...
text: He dislodges a rock. It tumbles into the grotto...
text: ...and a startled BAT comes screeching out of the gap in the
text: rocks -- FLYING DIRECTLY AT HIS FACE.
scene_heading: ANGLE ON ROCKS - PENGUIN AND VICKI
text: He BACKS AWAY IN HORROR as the bat streaks past him. He FIRES
text: HIS GUN wildly. The SOUND OF IT rouses MORE BATS, and they
text: come flying out of the hole -- a VAST, CHITTERING SWARM.
text: VICKI SHRIEKS; the PENGUIN STUMBLES -- and the two of them
text: FALL BACK ONTO THE ROCKS, hanging on for dear life.
speaker_heading: BATMAN
speaker_heading: VICKI!
text: An instant later BATMAN lets fly with the BATARANG. Clean
text: hit; the PENGUIN staggers back, and his GUN skitters down
text: across the rocks.
text: With BATS screaming all around her, VICKI takes a deep breath
text: and VAULTS toward the CATWALK. She's a foot short; she grabs
text: hold of the railing and HANGS THERE, over the ABYSS, trying to
text: pull herself up. BATMAN races toward her --
text: -- but the PENGUIN, clambering down across the rocky
text: outcropping, has managed to grab hold of his GUN. The BATS
text: have begun to swirl up toward the higher recesses of the
text: cavern, and he's able to draw a clean bead on BATMAN.
text: THUNDEROUS ECHOES reverberate through the cave as the first
text: shot strikes BATMAN and knocks him backward. As the second
text: spins him around. As the third sends him TOPPLING OVER THE
text: RAILING.
text: VICKI screams. BATMAN manages to grab the rail with one hand.
text: Now two of them are hanging from the catwalk -- sitting ducks
text: -- and the PENGUIN is determined to empty the clip.
text: The ECHOES are cacophanous. ANCIENT STALACTITES drop from the
text: vaulted roof of the cavern, PLUMMETING DOWNWARD like deadly
text: projectiles, shattering agaist the cave floor. And then --
text: BATMAN pulls a tiny DEVICE from his utility belt and FLINGS
text: IT. It lands in the rocks at the PENGUIN's feet. He stares
text: down at it, and two beats later --
text: -- it begins to emit an EERIE ELECTRONIC WHINE. Within
text: moments, EVERY BAT IN THE CAVE is in a FRENZY -- HOMING IN ON
text: THE SIGNAL. The PENGUIN looks up sees them coming. A CHOKED
text: WAIL emits from his throat as he drops the gun and stands
text: there, PARALYZED.
text: He's just been beaten at his own game. He lets out a last
text: awful HOWL as HUNDREDS OF BATS ENGULF HIM --
text: -- and he PLUNGES DOWN INTO THE PIT -- his hideous scream
text: dwindling to a faint echo, then vanishing altogether...
text: BATMAN manages to drag himself up onto the catwalk. He rushes
text: over to VICKI, pulls her up, drapes his cape around her
text: protectively. Gradually, as the BATS recede to their distant
text: perches, he stands and helps VICKI to her feet. They embrace
text: on the edge of the abyss.
text: On the far plateau, DICK has hooked up with ALFRED. The
text: butler is slumped against a lab table, weary and exhausted,
text: clutching his wounded arm. DICK slings an arm around him and
text: helps him to the stairway.
speaker_heading: CUT TO:
scene_heading: EXT. WAYNE MANOR - NIGHT
text: SQUAD CARS everywhere. FRICK and FRACK emerge in handcuffs,
text: flanked by COPS. PARAMEDICS carry the still-unconscious
text: SELINA past on a stretcher and load her into the back of an
dialog: ambulance.
scene_heading: INT. WAYNE MANOR - ENTRY HALL - NIGHT
text: The place is an utter mess. Amid the carnage we find BRUCE
text: conferring with COMMISSIONER GORDON and LT. BULLOCK. In b.g.,
text: a POLICE DOCTOR is dressing ALFRED's gunshot wound.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: ...and then Batman showed up?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: He saved all our lives, Jim. I can't say
dialog: for sure, but I'd bet she's the one behind
dialog: the murders.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: God -- I pray you're right.
dialog: <i>(beat)</i>
dialog: One thing before we go, Bruce. Who's the
dialog: kid?
text: BRUCE looks into the front parlor, where VICKI and DICK are
text: righting the fallen Christmas tree.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Oh, that's Vicki's little cousin. He's in
dialog: town for the holidays.
speaker_heading: GORDON
dialog: Well, he picked a hell of a time to visit.
dialog: <i>(turning to go)</i>
dialog: Merry Christmas, Bruce. Good luck
dialog: cleaning this place up.
text: GORDON and BULLOCK file out, followed by the POLICE DOCTOR.
text: BRUCE smiles wearily to himself and strolls into the front
dialog: parlor.
scene_heading: INT. FRONT PARLOR - NIGHT
text: ALFRED loads 'SILENT NIGHT' on the CD. VICKI ambles up to
speaker_heading: BRUCE:
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: What are you going to do with all that
dialog: gold?
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: I dunno. Might be a good start on a place
dialog: to live -- for some people who don't have
dialog: one.
text: She hugs him. DICK plugs in the Christmas-tree lights; they
text: blink to life just as the GRANDFATHER CLOCK strikes twelve.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: It's Christmas.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: Yeah. Maybe you should -- open your
dialog: present.
text: She runs a hand along his cheek and laughs softly.
speaker_heading: VICKI
dialog: Oh, Bruce, presents doesn't matter. None
dialog: of it matters. We're all safe. We're
dialog: together.
speaker_heading: BRUCE
dialog: ...You might as well.
text: He digs around in his jacket pocket and produces a tiny GIFT
text: BOX, which he hands to VICKI. She unwraps it, opens it slowly
text: -- and sees a DIAMOND RING inside.
text: She gazes up at him, speechless. He gazes back.
text: CAMERA PULLS UP and away until we can see the whole of the
text: devastated room, and all the people in it -- VICKI, falling
text: into BRUCE's arms; DICK, off to one side, watching them;
text: ALFRED, tossing broken furniture into a roaring fireplace.
dialog: And on the image of this decidedly eccentric family unit, we
speaker_heading: FADE OUT.
speaker_heading: THE END